 The next memories are from May Morris, or 1928. My mother's name was Hilda Mann and dad's name was Harry Mann. My brothers were Bill, Harry, John and Ken and sisters Mary and Doreen. I stayed in Chatham. We were going to be inspected by King George so we have been given a few days off. I was in the Naffy Club. Some sailors had arrived from Aurora Navy ship. They had been sailing the Mediterranean. A young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink. I had a cider. He would be back to the Rens quarters. Then he asked me to go to the pictures. The next evening we went to a film afterwards he walked me back to the Rens quarters and asked me to marry him. I said no. About 12 months after I had been to my when I was scraping potatoes with my mother she told me that I should write to Cliff. He had been writing to me since I met him. She said I should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore. I said I wouldn't like him to think I hadn't contacted him so I wrote to him and said that I would marry him. He came for his ease to leave to our house. He told me that he had been in the Marines and they had been shot in the leg whilst in Burma. We married on August 50th 1950. We spent Christmas together and then he sent the courier on the HMS Constance. For the first four years fair marriage I never saw him but he used to write every day. When he came back to Plymouth we saw each other at weekends. When he was demob we moved to Rons. We have three children Melanie and Andrew. In 22 years in the Army he came out as a well-un officer. Melanie works in education and is a school governor. Ian works in an office at an Andrew as a postman. They are very good children and are always there for me. On April 25th 2011 my husband died. At the funeral my daughter's husband read a tribute to him. The love stuff like lifeboat took his ashes out to see. He had always loved lowest stuff. We had a mobile bed. The next memories are from May Morris or 1928. My mother's name was Hilda Mann and dad's name was Harry Mann. My brothers were Bill, Harry, John and Ken and sisters Mary and Doreen. I stayed in Chatham. We were going to be inspected by King George so we have been given a few days off. I was in the Naffy Club. Some sailors had arrived from a Royal Navy ship. They had been sailing the Mediterranean. A young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink. I had a cider. He would be back to the Rens quarters. Then he asked me to go to the pictures. The next evening we went to a film. Afterwards he walked me back to the Rens quarters and asked me to marry him. I said no. About 12 months after I had been in my when I was scraping potatoes with my mother. She told me that I should write to Cliff. He had been writing to me since I met him. She said I should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore. I said I wouldn't like him to think I hadn't contacted him so I wrote to him and said that I would marry him. He came for his ease to leave to our house. He told me that he had been in the Marines and they had been shot in the leg whilst in Burma. We married on August 50th 1950. We spent Christmas together and then he sent the courier on the HMS Constance. For the first four years Farrah married John never saw him but he used to write every day. When he came back to Plymouth we saw each other at weekends. When he was demob we moved to Rons. We had three children, Melanie, Ian and Andrew. Ian served 22 years in the Army. He came out as a well-un officer. Melanie works in education and is a school governor. Ian works in an office at an Andrew as a postman. They are very good children and are always there for me. On April 25th 2011 my husband died. At the funeral my daughter's husband read a tribute to him. The love stuff like lifeboat took his ashes out to sea. He had always loved lowest stuff. We had a mobile bed. Ronald Pittman born 1929. My father, my father Ronald Arthur worked for the Air Ministry. I know that he was pretty high up. He had been transferred from London to Coventry. Every night we would head for the nearest shelter. We were near the Blitz. I remember October the 12th 1942, the biggest day of the Blitz. I recall how we used to go into the recreational realm where shelters had been dug. The following morning we returned to our house. We had to walk home as there were no buses. We discovered that five houses down from our house. There was a parachute stuck on a chimney. On the end was a great big bomb. It hadn't gone off. If it had then the house in our street would have been destroyed. As mum was walking she kept repeating the words, "I wonder if the house is still there?" I think that this must have been enough of my parents as they packed our cases and we walked away from my home. My parents and I walked out of Coventry. I was 11 at the time. They had decided to leave Coventry and head to Northampton. Mum came from Northampton. We were just carrying one case each. A passing driver stopped and asked of what where we were going. When we told him of our planned destination he told us that we were going in the wrong way for the bus station. He took us to his house and gave us tea. After tea he took us to the bus station. A really kind act. Blan Warner born 1927. Dad died when I was eight. And as I was one of five sons life wasn't very easy for my mother. In order to become a breadwinner I left school at the age of 14. I later enrolled in an evening class at the Wallingborough Technical College where I was to remain for some time. I was determined to do something with my life which is why I decided to become a draftsman and develop and understand in about building. I'd always had an interest in architecture and would love to have become an architect but due to financial implications coupled with the fact that it would have taken several years to qualify. I followed up my second choice. I worked in the drawing office at Hunter and Penrose but was called up to do a national service and joined the Clerical Department of the RAF. In 1940 sets where I continued to work as a draftsman having saved enough money whilst in service I was able to enroll on a art and design course at Northampton College. During my time at college I collected a portfolio and it was from this that I was chosen to go and work at a studio in Northampton. But I still felt that there was something else that I should have been doing with my life then. I decided that I would prefer to have a job working with people which is why I decided to become an officer in the Salvation Army. By 1939 Mum had moved her business to Abbey Road. As the war had started it was a bad time for her. Rastening came as Mum was selling Parsons, Port Pies and Cook Meats. All of these were rastion but her business survived. It was opposite the Prince of Wales pub which is now a home for disabled people. My brother courted the landlord's daughter. My brother was an engine driver. He had passed the 11 plus but Mum couldn't afford to pay for his uniform. As he'd always dreamt to become an a train driver he wasn't disappointed about not having a grammar school education. He wasn't conscripted as driving trains was of course essential. He used to take up arms up and down the country. He used to take arms up and down the country. I smiled now as Mum used to spoil my brother. He was given butter whilst we were given my dream. My sister was nine years older than me. She was a sergeant in the West and was in the Barrage Balloon Unit in London. My oldest brother was a desert rat in Egypt. My other sister was maintaining Wellington bombers which were based at Sirewolf. Dad was a Marine in the Dardanelles. I used to cycle for the ARP in Wellingborough. The unit was based behind what is now Wellingborough Library. There used to be cabins there. It was my job to take the messages between the cabins which were based to all over Wellingborough. I remember German planes going to commentary and the bombing of Coventry. I clearly remember the Bancology Monday when a German bomber dropped a bomb in Market Street. At 6pm the alert was sounded in Wellingborough but only moments later, a door near to 117 flew over the town dropping four dropping four 500 kilogram high-exclusive bombs. They also dropped bombs near the gas tanks in Wellingborough. I went into the town and saw all of the two men and one boy were killed and 55 injured. There was also extensive damage to houses, factories, churches, hotels, pub cinemas as well as the headquarters broadcast relay services. The yanks were coming. The five and four five regimental based in Scotland. My sister went on to marry one of these bombers. They used to stay at the Bieswing which were near the Swat to the Sponspore. All the American vehicles and the gear used was stored beneath the trees all along London Road. Of course all along London Road was screened from the general public. Early war. I remember when Mosley came with his black shirts and how he marched from Wellingborough school and up to the senator. The headmaster at the school was a communist. Many doesn't bring happiness. I also recall General De Gaulle visiting Feindel, Feindel Hall. He had a housekeeper who was a bit of a recluse. I believe that Winston Churchill only got to be prime minister because of the Labour Party. Clement Attley had been in the war office and was the commanding chief. I joined the Labour League of youth when I was 18. We used to meet at the Econan Road Wellingborough. We couldn't vote until we were 21. Then George Lindigrom was an MP from 1945 and 1946. It was a junior minister in Parliament. The Lindigrom stayed at the Heind hotel. Mrs Lindigrom used to do her shopping in Wellingborough every Saturday. The YMCA which was at the back of the central hall and this is where we used to have gatherings for youth parliament. We used to have lively debates there. There was a potato famine at the time and the Tories would roll potatoes down the central aisle. Anything to cause a diversion. I was at Blackpool from 1955 until '57 and what were children. I was often working on the beach and was able to use my drawing skills. I was actually based at Aquington Lancanchet. It was a weaving town. I lived in Clerick Street. The citadel was next to what had been an entrance to Aquington Mines. The welcome sergeant was a Jamaican. I remember going to his home and that he had so much furniture. Little Mary Rooney was a very good collector for the cause. She was the same. We used to have a mill with Lady Banquoft at her big house. We would sit each side of a long table with her at the head of the table. We used to have fish and chips served on a silver salver. We did a poor porpoise film but no one else could help. So we had to organise this funeral ourselves. There was a poor little lady who had taken three daffodils for someone's garden. She had nothing at all. I officiated at numerous weddings over the years, mainly for Salvation Army people but also dedicated at baptisms. The Salvation Army flag always had to be brought in. Ministerial training took about 18 months. My mother had a little star when I was ordained. The British Commissioner took the service. There were at least 200 people there and there was a bamblain. I had designed the batsene, we picked him flowers and crafts on the hill. I was given my first post in a flat pool. I'd only recently recovered from about a pneumonia. So that was one of the main reasons why I was posted there. A lot of Scots were there. I was at Northern Isle for three years. It was my job to go around the pub since the same day after the same day. So the Salvation Army was accepted there. I travelled down to Dublin by the train. I recall so many people standing on the steps of the cathedral. Kids were begging there. I loved the Belfast Bellfast people but the powers that had been moved me on and I went whilst I was still at the top. I remember being at the ferry at midnight and saying goodbye. All the people from the citadel were there. My next posting was a form of them. Was it the Boscombe Citadel? I used to be anxious as I'm not an orator. When I was taking services I was taught to look over people's heads. But there was this holy joke character. He was always trying to correct me. Never. Over the next 12 months would he either he or his wife invite me to their home. They were retired majors and colonels. I used to have a lot to do, a lot of visiting to do. I didn't make care of the major. I was at the Bournemouth for 12 months but during this time I wasn't very happy. They all had good places and nice homes whilst I was a lodger and looked after myself. My landlady was lovely but sure I served my mashed potatoes. I went out to avoid the mashed potatoes. I was a youth officer and it was a rough place where gangs would form. They used to fight but I would tell them that they had to get together or leave. I would say that it was probably my toughest job. I feel that I got very little support whilst I was there. I was demob, demob at Lythons and Anz. I remember going to a cafe and having a sausage breakfast. A noose it was provided for me and also my fair home. I was then at Whiz Beach. Wherever you go people are different. They were very strawberries and flowers people. I was there for the next 12 months. There was an election and I was walking down the road and saw two people walking towards me. When I recognised immediately as being George Brown I couldn't belong to a political party whilst I was in the Salvation Army. George spoke to me and was very friendly. I thought he was a Prescott sort of person. He came in wearing a blue suit when I spoke at Rushton. He could make contact with people immediately. I remember Bob Castle small and petite with organ hair. She was ferocious. From Whiz Beach I returned to Wellimba College Street where I stayed with my sister, son and her husband. I share a room with my nephew and then needed to find a job necessary for a reference. I attended an interview at Townsend Carriers which was in Haim Verris. A manager arrived one morning at Pike's Zero Church Street. I had already explained that I wasn't looking for a welfare job with his firm and so had been truthful. I was offered an unaccepted employment with this firm and was there for some time. I then got a job at Greenwich. Greenwich where I worked for London County Council. I had 300 on my list but not children. My case files mainly worked around supporting those with learning disabilities. Learning disabilities is a mental illness problem. I soon discovered that many people were not getting their benefit entitlements. All this work was good training for me. I worked with all nationalities. We also helped deafened them and blind clients and because of this I had to learn sign language. I used to have to go one day a week with regards training as well as learning about the organisations. I'd later come into contact with as I was still living in North Amptons. I would catch the seven a.m. bus getting off at Eastfield Road and then catch the seven twenty five on one in Butters St. Pancras before catching a train from London Bridge to Woolwich or Greenwich which was where most of my clients were. I was to remain in this job for next to three years. I then returned to North Amptons in 1968. I then found employment as a social worker. Inhaled and welfare. I applied for the job as a manager at the Gladstone Centre in North Amptons. This centre accepted people who are age 16 or over. I remained in this job for the next two years. I then tried something really different when I applied for a job working at the Saudi Arabian Embassy where I explained that I had only experienced rather than certificates. I worked in the capital re-ard for the next 12 months. I worked as an advisor to the Ministry of Disabled People. There was no social life. I got a flat near to D soo and the British corporation compound with a Saudi guard at the gate. I found that making a friend with this gate was with this guard was helpful as I managed to get into the embassy at weekends. I remember how they used to make their own drinks. There was an English boy there who owned a sports car which he would drive around the compound. There was also a man there who owned a bungalow. He was disabled. I had been living in a hotel which was opposite the American compound. I used to get my breakfast there. This compound also had its own cinema. I joined a Christian group. I would walk but it wasn't a done thing then. They had coffee shots but if I went into one then I was viewed with suspicion. I got friends with a taxi driver and it was him who helped me to get a flat. I got a bad ear infection which was treated in a free hospital by three doctors. Pakistanis run show the show. While I was there I stayed at two hotels. Sometimes I would go off with the Americans to watch the camel or horse racing. It was amusing watching people trying to get onto the camel. I was in a great big office. There was his fellow there who would just sit with his feet on his desk reading his newspaper. He was supposed to be the boss. I would write out all of my reports. The young Pakistani was my secretary. My report would go to the minister who wanted to be a prince. He would go to see this prince. We would go to see this prince and have to drink his this foul coffee. They would always keep me waiting. The Saudis didn't seem to do the dirty work. King Pye Sel was assassinated. He had big lots of flats but his people refused to move into them but instead remained in their shacks. They were quite nice and made of tin. It used to be lovely and Mercedes parked outside these shacks. After my year was up I stayed in friends. I stayed in friends flats in London. In order to find employment and a wage I began working in a market garden nursery. I remained there for the next nine months. I was promoted to be a foreman where I supervised loads of women. It was great. I then found employment as a manager at Williston. This time I was working for older people. I was driving by then. I used to drive from North Amptonshire to Williston every day. I remained there until I got a job at Lambethas and manager. Mrs Mary Williston opened the centre and I had the honour of receiving here. I remained at the centre for the next three years. There was a diverse membership of people there. I used to take this South London perky secretary to Park Lane, Palmau or Dolchester for a meal. I also remember meeting the governor of a prison who I became good friends with. It was all very interesting. We used to get pre-seats for matinees at theatres and we would go on special disabled coaches. We always had three seats. Everybody used to have a whale at the time. We used to stop at Biggles Way, Pervoir, Befersley Book to Mill, usually Scamp and Ships and in Winter we used to sit beside a great big fire. I still miss those happy times. We would also help people with dementia. Sometimes staff went with us. They were often included on the list. I would say that my proudest moment was when I got into welfare as I had no school certificates, except I was an elementary boy who managed to achieve something with my efforts and did this for 30 years. I moved to finding in 1965 having resigned from being a Salvation Army officer at Wiz Beach. I enjoyed the social service as part of the Salvation Army. I believe that my service service in Inception Post was the catalyst which encouraged me to apply for the self-air social welfare officer at Gepkrennishland. There were four candidates for this post. One was at university studying sociology. Another was a welfare assistant and another was at college. There were eight people on the panel. I had by then had an interview with a senior social worker and I had also attended the William Booth College in London. That had been recommended by well in the Salvation Army to do this course. As an officer I had been given the rights by the Salvation Army. I couldn't be a member of any political party whilst being in the Salvation Army office. But when I retired at the age of 62 I became a member of the Labour Party. I will never change my politics. Nothing is perfect and no one is perfect. Life is temporary. Everything around you is temporary so do what you can, why should you can. I don't know what will happen tomorrow. We used to have a Men's and Women's Cooperative Department. Sarah Wilson worked at the Men's Outfitters in Church Street. Sarah was the real historian of findum then. As well as willing to help her, he was a lovely man. Soon after arriving in finding I heard that the Labour Party needed a secretary and agreed to take on this post. This post was just am being the position of being able to stand for the Urban District Council and the three of us who stood there were returned unopposed and this was in the 60s. I feel that I have been quite active working in the community and have helped people where I could. It was whilst I was serving on the Urban District Council that I became more aware of what was needed. I had lots of requests for help. It was difficult to meet the needs of everyone as I was working at Greenwich at the time and I left for working in the darkness and returning in the darkness. I was on the Paris Council right from its inception. I was secretary of the Carnival Parade Committee for two years but had to resign from this post when I went to work abroad. I also found with George Anderson of the Community Social. I was the area officer of the stroke association after retiring from the social services. Several local people requested that a stroke club was needed and this came from being into being in 1990. I was also a member of the North Socialist Movement. I am a devout Christian and have been so for most of my life. I always feel that by giving I receive much more in my life. I've tried to do my bit in God's Vineyard. I can't do anymore. I always remember the epitaph on someone's grave which read. He have done what he could. This is what I would like as an effort to epitaph on my gravestone. What a beautiful thing to do. The next memories are from May Morris on 1928. My mother's name was Hilda Mann and that's name was Harry Mann. My brothers were Bill, Harry, John and Ken and sisters Mary and Doreen. I stayed in Chatham. We were going to be inspected by King George so we had been given a few days off. I was in the Naffy Club. Some sailors had arrived from a Royal Navy ship. They had been sailing the Mediterranean. A young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink. I had a cider. He would be back to the Ren's Quarters. Then he asked me to go to the pictures. The next evening we went to a film afterwards he walked me back to the Ren's Quarters and asked me to marry him. I said no. About 12 months after I had been to the mob when I was scraping potatoes with my mother she told me that I should write to Cliff. He had been writing to me since I met him. She said I should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore. I said I wouldn't like him to think I hadn't contacted him so I wrote to him and said that I would marry him. He came for his ease to leave to our house. He told me that he had been in the Marines and they had been shot in their leg whilst in Burma. We married on August 50th 1950. We spent Christmas together and then he sent the courier on the HMS Constance. For the first four years for our marriage I never saw him but he used to write every day. When he came back to Plymouth we saw each other at weekends. When he was demob we moved to Rawns. We had three children Melanie and Andrew. In served 22 years in the Army. He came out as a well-un officer. Melanie works in education and is a school governor. Ian works in an office and Andrew is a postman. They are very good children and are always there for me. On April 25th 2011 my husband died. At the funeral my daughter's husband read a tribute to him. The love stuff like lifeboat took his ashes out to sea. He had always loved lowest stuff. We had a mobile bed. One of Pittman born 1929. My father, my father Ronald Arthur worked for the Air Ministry. I know that he was pretty high up. He had been transferred from London to Coventry. Every night we would head for the nearest shelter. We were near the Blitz. I remember October 12th 1942. The biggest day of the Blitz. I recall how we used to go into the recreational realm where shelters had been dug. The following morning we returned to our house. We had to walk home as there were no buses. We discovered that five houses down from our house there was a parachute stuck on a chimney. On the end was a great big bomb. It hadn't gone off. If it had then the house in our street would have been destroyed. As Mum was walking she kept repeating the words "I wonder if the house is still there". I think that this must have been enough of my parents as they packed our cases and we walked away from my home. My parents and I walked out of Coventry. I was 11 at the time. They had decided to leave Coventry and head to Northampton. Mum came from Northampton. We would just carry in one case each. A passing driver stopped and asked about where we were going. When we told him of our planned destination he told us that we were going in the wrong way for the bus station. He took us to his house and gave us tea. After tea he took us to the bus station. A really kind act. The following story was given to me by Arthur Hyatt. I know his daughter born 1930 London. I was born at the White Chapel Hospital to Elizabeth Hyatt, Knee Smith. My mother was born in 1904 in the same area of London. I lived in school. She worked in a factory making toothbrushes and shaving brushes from Badger hair. My mum's parents lived in Pichard's Road Bethmore Green which was a tool up and two down property. My grandma made much match boxes for Brian and May. She stuck on the strips of paper which she first put him on to then stuck on the form. She received very little money for this. She also made trousers for school by his boys. Her husband my grandfather was a court cluster and this was fitted into policeman's helmets. Bit more interesting information to learn. He died before I was born so I never knew him. My aunt Lee in a lived close by and she worked as a French publisher which she carried out in her garden. My father Henry Hyatt was also born in 1904. He worked in a shoe factory the same one where his father was employed. They made laid shoes for during the World War II and they made boots for soldiers. I was the youngest of identical twins. My brother was also called Henry. We started school age two and a half and we used to sleep in the afternoons after the blinds were poured. We were living in Pichard's Road Bethmore Green at that time with my mother's parents. We later moved to live with my father's mother in North Street, Hattney. After her husband my grandfather died. The landlord would visit every week to collect the rent money which was six penny fathering. It must have been a struggle for people to find enough money then. As Mum often spoke of people having their furniture thrown out in the streets when they could not afford to pay the rent. We attended Mowlin Street infant school for boys and girls from 1935. There we learnt to read and write and basic arithmetic. When we reached the eight of eight years we went to Surston Jip Road Junior School. This was quite a distance away. It was near to Victoria Park. In their park there were swings, slides of boating, lido, bun stand and an imaginary. We were playing the park and sometimes turned the skipping rope for the girls. Eventually the house where we lived in North Street was demolished and we moved to a council flat on the Pembury Road estate in Clapton. This had electric lighting, a bathroom and two bedrooms. Most of the fun was moving from North Street. They were housed on the same estate. At the outbreak of World War II we listened to Chamberlain announcing this on the wireless. We were evacuated to North at a place called Paston close to the East Coast. We stayed with the Chamberlain family in Paston for one year after which the government became for the safety of evacuees. The threat of evasion on the East Coast seemed likely so we were put on a train to Woodair near Tung within the Midlands. After we arrived at our new destination we were taken to a field where households had already gathered. Mr and Mrs Hunt took us into their home which was a keeper's cottage in the valley. This had been a hunting cottage in the past. We attended a local school but due to the increase in population caused by evacuees there was only one room to accommodate us in the mornings. As though the shortage of teachers as was brought out of this retirement. On leaving for work one morning Mr Hunt found chickens of pigs running loose outside. He told us there are bits of pigs hanging from the trees as there had been a bombing made overnight. Our parents were now really worried about our safety due to where we were living. So they made a decision to bring us back to London. On our return to London we attended the grocery school, a lovely Victorian building near to where we lived in Clapton. The 11+ had ceased during the war so all we went to an elementary school. Two years later having reached the age of 14 we left school and started work. I was fortunate enough to gain employment with a building company. Part of our work was to go to properties that had been bombed damaged so we could board them up. We also had contracts to board up pubs and the and the gym and would leave that barrels out. It was our responsibility to make the roof waterproof weatherproof. I remember working at the Coptab and Hybrid Corner where we were boarding up the windows when a doodle bike broke dropped on a nearby station. My workmate dropped through the roof to the bottom floor enjoying himself. I was blown through a window and a piece of glass sliced into my head. Somebody wrapped my head in a towel then put me on a tram to Witchington Hospital to get treatment. I still have that scar. Our teenage years seemed to last forever. Both my brother and myself had left school and were working. I started evening classes however one night a V2 rocket landed on it and then demolished the back of the school. I was promised another place at a school further away that only had gas lighting. The Germans struck again this time were a doodle book and the school was completely demolished. In 1948 my brother and I enjoyed dancing and we went to parties with our friends. As we reached H.E. and we all received our call at papers to do national service. My brother and I went for our medical together and was successful in getting places as a first choice at RAF. We went to Padgate for our basic training and then moved on to RAF Cromwell number one radio station after passing the course. I was posted to RAF Maurym in Northwark. After a couple of weeks I was moved again to a radio site in Bista. After my time at RAF Bista I was told I was being posted to Germany. My brother was stationed at RAF Heensford so I stayed with him until we both were dispatched to Germany. We had no idea exactly where in Germany we were going or why. We landed at RAF Gatto in Berlin. After reporting to the signals commander I was enlightened on the situation. I have wondered why there were so many aircraft landing and taking off day and night. We were told we were feeding the German population of Berlin by air. We reported not only food but other supplies such as coal, oil, baby food and engineering equipment. Anything that was needed to sustain life was bought in by air as there was no other open. I was set to work in the control tower controlling air traffic. The shifts were long as we were in a station operating over 24 hours. Towards the end of my time in Berlin I was sent to RAF Güsserschün in the British zone as they had demodels and made traffic controllers and this had left them short-staffed. I was trying to get a return to Gatto and my brother went evening rang me to see if he could help. There was a celebration going on there and he explained that the Waffes were returning to Britain as it was becoming too dangerous for them to stay because of the Russian occupation, the risk of. I was eventually returned to Britain. Berlin was put in charge of direct training direction finding unit in 1949 NATO had just been formed and I had direct contact via a red telephone to NATO headquarters if needed. In January 1950 I was sent to RAF Güsserschün for a rehabilitation course. This was intended to prepare me to go back into civil up civilian life in March of that year. I soon realised it was a scam to get me to sign on for further service. I knew they were looking for wireless operations to go into the east of Germany but I wasn't having any of that. Instead I returned to RAF Köhrküm in March 1950 and I was demod from there. I was once again a civilian and returned to my old job. Three months later came at the Korean War. I was recalled and sent to London Airport to retrain on radar and more modern equipment in case I was needed for further service with the RAF. My girlfriend, Fye, was not pleased as we were making plans to marry. I resume my studies at the Northam pit polytechnic, after securing my brief, brief as employing. I married by in March 1952 at St Mary Church in Dollstone. We rented a flat in Colviston Crescent where we stayed for about six years. Our first daughter, Valerie, was born in 1954. We then moved to a relatives house and rented a flat there. In 1962 our second daughter, Gillian, was born. About 18 months later we decided to move out of London to Huntington. As we wanted the house of our own, I obtained work as a draftsman for a refrigeration company but unfortunately the pay was not that good. My friend Tom, who was a factory foreman and I, left the company and obtained some contract work so that we could make enough money to buy our own houses. I bought a house in Sortree. Tom and I were working for a builder on research centre and they asked me if I would like to work for them direct. I joined their design team as a senior architect and stayed there until my retirement in 1995. I carried on privately with my architect consultancy, designing houses and extensions but as the planning laws and building regulations became more complex, I called it a day and retired gradually, much to my wife's pleasure. That should be gracefully, much to my wife's pleasure. My wife by died in 2009. My daughter Valerie is now retired from our management position with Department of Works and pensions and my youngest daughter Gillian is still working as a network design development manager. This is my life story, well not all of it as I'm still alive, true, the end. The following story was given to me by Arthur Hyatt, I know his daughter born 1930 London. I was born at the White Chapel Hospital to Elizabeth Hyatt, Neve Smith. My mother was born in 1904 in the same area of London. I live in school, she worked in a factory making toothbrushes and shaving brushes from Badger Hair. My mum's parents lived in Pichard's Road Bethnal Green which was a tool up and two down property. My grandma, grandmother, made much match boxes for Brian and Mae. She stuck on the strips of paper which she first put in water then stuck on the form. She received very little money for this. She also made trousers for school boys. Her husband, my grandfather was a court cluster and this was fitted into policeman's helmets. Bit more interesting information to learn. He died before I was born so I never knew him. My aunt Lee in a live close by and she worked as a French publisher which she carried out in her garden. My father Henry Hyatt was also born in 1904. He worked in a shoe factory, the same one where his father was employed. They made ladies shoes for during the World War II and they made boots for soldiers. I was the youngest of identical twins. My brother was also called Henry. We started school age two and a half and we used to sleep in the afternoons after the blinds were poured. We were living in Pichard's Road Bethnal Green at that time with my mother's parents. We later moved to live with my father's mother in North Street, Hattney. After her husband, my grandfather died. The landlord would visit every week to collect the rent money which was six penny fathering. It must have been a struggle for people to find enough money then. As Mum often spoke of people having their furniture thrown out in the streets when they could not afford to pay the rent. We attended Mowlin Street infant school for boys and girls from 1935. There we learnt to read and write and basic arithmetic. When we reached the age of eight years, we went to Sootard's Junjuk Road, June his school. This was quite a distance away. It was near to Victoria Park. In their park there were swings, slides, a boat in Lido, a bandstand and a malajournery. We were playing the park and sometimes turned the skipping rope for the girls. Eventually the house where we lived in North Street was demolished and we moved to a council that on the Pembury Road estate in Clapton. This had electric lighting, a bathroom and two bedrooms. Most of the families moving from North Street then were housed on the same estate. At the outbreak of World War II we were listed to Chamberlain. We listened to Chamberlain announcing this on the wireless. We were evacuated to North at a place called Paston close to the East Coast. We stayed with the Chamberlain family in Paston for one year after which the government became for the safety of evacuees. The threat of invasion on the incoast seemed likely so we were put on a train to Woodair near Tung within the Midlands. After we arrived at our new destination we were taken to a field where households had already gathered. Mr and Mrs Hunt took us into their home which was a keeper's cottage in the valley. This had been a hunting cottage in the past. We attended a local school but due to the increase in population caused by evacuees there was only one room to accommodate us in the mornings. As though the shortage of teachers as was brought out of this retirement. On leaving for work one morning Mr Hunt found chickens and pigs running loose outside. He told us there are bits of pigs hanging from the trees as there have been a bombing made overnight. Our parents were now really worried about our safety due to where we were living. So they made a decision to bring us back to London. On our return to London we attended the Grocer School a lovely Victorian building near to where we lived in Clapton. The Olympics had ceased during the war so all we went to an elementary school. Two years later having reached the age of 14 we left school and started work. I was fortunate enough to gain employment with a building company. Part of our work was to go to properties that had been bombed damaged so we could board them up. We also had contracts to board up pubs and the drainmen would leave that barrels out. It was our responsibility to make the roof waterproof, weatherproof. I remember working at the Coptab and Hybrid Corner where we were boarding at the windows when a doodle bug dropped on a nearby station. My workmate dropped through the roof to the bottom floor injuring himself. I was blown through a window and a piece of glass sliced into my head. Somebody wrapped my head in a towel then put me on a tram to Whittington Hospital to get treatment. I still have that scar. Our teenage years seemed to last forever. Both my brother and myself had left school and were working. I started evening classes however one night a V2 rocket landed on it and then managed to back the school. I was promised another place at a school further away that only had gas lighting. The Germans struck again this time with a doodle bug and the school was completely demolished. In 1948 my brother and I enjoyed dancing and we went to parties with our friends. As we reached Achee and we all received our call at papers to do national service. My brother and I went for our medical together and was successful in getting places as a first choice. At RAF we went to Pudgate for our basic training and then moved on to RAF Cromwell number one radio station after passing the course. I was posted to RAF Ma room in Northrop. After a couple of weeks I was moved again to a radio site in Bista. After my time at RAF Bista I was told I was being posted to Germany. My brother was stationed at RAF heens. Ferts I stayed with him until we both were dispatched to Germany. We had no idea exactly where in Germany we were going or why. We landed at RAF Gatto in Berlin. After reporting to the signals commander I was enlightened on the situation. I wonder why there were so many aircraft landing and taking off day and night. We were told we were feeding the German population of Berlin by air air. Reporting not only food but other supplies such as coal, oil, bay food and engineering equipment. In fact anything that was needed to sustain life was brought in by air as there was no other route open. I was set to work in the control tower controlling air traffic. The shifts were long as we were in a station operation over 24 hours. Towards the end of my time in Berlin I was sent to RAF Güsserschön in the British zone as they had demodus and made traffic controllers and this had left them short staffed. I was trying to get a return to Gatto and my brother one evening rang me to see if he could help. There was a celebration going on there and he explained that the wafts were returning to Britain as it was becoming too dangerous for them to stay because of the Russian occupation, the risk of. I was eventually returned to Britain, Berlin and was put in charge of direction finding unit. In 1949 NATO had just been formed and I had direct contact via red telephone to NATO headquarters if needed. In January 1950 I was sent to RAF Büchberg for a rehabilitation course. This was intended to prepare me to go back into civil civilian life in March of that year. I soon realized it was a scam to get me to sign on for further service. I knew they were looking for wireless operators to go into the east of Germany but I wasn't having any of that. Instead I returned to RAF Kirkham in March 1950 and I was demod from there. I was once again a civilian and returned to my old job. Three months later came at the Korean War. I was recalled and sent to London Airport to retrain on radar and more modern equipment in case I was needed for further service with the RAF. My girlfriend, Fye, was not pleased as we were making plans to marry. I resumed my studies at the North and Pyeft politics Nick after securing my pre-breathe was employing. I married by in March 1952 at St Mary Church in Doulston. We rented a flat in Colveston Crescent where we stayed for about six years. Our first daughter, Valerie, was born in 1954. We then moved to a relatives house and rented a flat there. In 1962 our second daughter, Gillian, was born about 18 months later. We decided to move out of London to Huntington. As we wanted to house our own, I obtained work as a draftsman for a refrigeration company but unfortunately the pay was not that good. My friend Tom, who was a factory foreman and I left the company and obtained some contract work so that we could make enough money to buy our own houses. I bought a house in Sortree. Tom and I were working for a builder on research centre and they asked me if I would like to work for them direct. I joined their design team as a senior architect and stayed there until my retirement in 1995. I carried on privately with my architect consultancy, designing houses and extensions. But as the planning laws and building regulations became more complex, I called it a day and retired gradually, much to my wife's pleasure. That should be gracefully, much to my wife's pleasure. My wife by died in 2009. My daughter Valerie is now retired from a management position with Department of Works and pensions and my youngest daughter, Gillian, is still working as a knit-wedge design development manager. This is my life story, well not all of it as I'm still alive, true, the end. The following story was given to me by Arthur Hyatt, I know his daughter, born in 1930 London. I was born at the White Chapel Hospital to Elizabeth Hyatt, New Smith. My mother was born in 1904 in the same area of London. I lived in school, she worked in a factory making toothbrushes and shaving brushes from Badger Hair. My mum's parents lived in Pichard's Road Bethmore Green, which was a two-up and two-down property. My grandma, grandmother, made much, much boxes for Brian and May. She stuck on the strips of paper, which she first put in water, then stuck on the form. She received very little money for this. She also made trousers for school boys. Her husband, my grandfather, was a court cluster and this was fitted into policeman's helmets. Bit more interesting information to learn. He died before I was born so I never knew him. My aunt Lee in a lived close by and she worked as a French publisher, which she carried out in her garden. My father, Henry Hyatt, was also born in 1904. He worked in a shoe factory, the same one where his father was employed. They made laid shoes for during the World War II and they made boots for soldiers. I was the youngest of identical twins. My brother was also called Henry. We started school aged two and a half and we used to sleep in the afternoons after the blinds were poured. We were living in Pritche as a road Bethnal Green at that time with my mother's parents. We later moved to live with my father's mother in North Street, Hackney. After her husband, my grandfather died. The landlord would visit every week to collect the rent money, which was six-penny fathering. It must have been a struggle for people to find enough money then. As Mum often spoke of people having their furniture thrown out in the streets when they could not afford to pay the rent. We attended Mowlin Street infant school for boys and girls from 1935. There we learnt to read and write and basic arithmetic. When we reached the age of eight years, we went to Seward-Stungeau Road Junior School. This was quite a distance away. It was near to Victoria Park. In their park there were swings, slides, a boat in Lido, a bandstand and a malajournery. We were playing the park and sometimes turned the skipping rope for the girls. Eventually the house where we lived in North Street was demolished and we moved to account of that flat on the Pembury Road estate in Clapton. This had electric lighting, a bathroom and two bedrooms. Most of the fun was moving from North Street. They were housed on the same estate. At the outbreak of World War II, we listened to Chamberlain announcing this on the wireless. We were evacuated to North at a place called Paston close to the East Coast. We stayed with the Chamberlain family in Paston for one year after which the government became for the safety of evacuees. The threat of evasion on the East Coast seemed likely so we were put on a train to wood in the atam within the Midlands. After we arrived at our new destination we were taken to a field where households had already gathered. Mr and Mrs Hunt took us into their home which was a keeper's cottage in the valley. This had been a hunting cottage in the past. We attended a local school but due to the increase in population caused by evacuees there was only one room to accommodate us in the mornings as though the shortage of teachers as was brought out of this retirement. On leaving for work one morning Mr Hunt found chickens of pigs running loose outside. He told us there are bits of pigs hanging from the trees as there had been a bombing made overnight. Our parents were now really worried about our safety due to where we were living. So they made a decision to bring us back to London. On our return to London we attended the grocery school, a lovely Victorian building near to where we lived in Clapton. The 11+ had ceased during the war so all we went to an elementary school. Two years later having reached the age of 14 we left school and started work. I was fortunate enough to gain employment with a building company. Part of our work was to go to properties that had been bombed damaged so we could board them up. We also had contracts to board up pubs and the trip and the gymmen would leave our barrels out. It was our responsibility to make the roof waterproof weatherproof. I remember working at the Coptab and Hybrid Corner where we were boarding up the windows when a doodle bike broke dropped on a nearby station. My workmate dropped through the roof to the bottom floor enjoying himself. I was blown through a window and a piece of glass sliced into my head. Somebody wrapped my head in a towel then put me on a tram to Witchington Hospital to get treatment. I still have that scar. Our teenage years seemed to last forever. Both my brother and myself had left school and were working. I started evening classes however one night a V2 rocket landed on it and then demolished the back of the school. I was promised another place at a school further away that only had gas lighting. The Germans struck again this time with a doodle book and the school was completely demolished. In 1948 my brother and I enjoyed dancing and we went to parties with our friends. As we reached Achee and we all received our call at papers to do national service. My brother and I went for our medical together and was successful in getting places as a first choice at RAF. We went to Paddigay for our basic training and then moved on to RAF Cromwell number one radio station after passing the course. I was posted to RAF Maerum in Northrop. After a couple of weeks I was moved again to a radio site in Bista. After my time at RAF Bista I was told I was being posted to Germany. My brother was stationed at RAF Heensford so I stayed with him until we both were dispatched to Germany. We had no idea exactly where in Germany we were going or why. We landed at RAF Gatto in Berlin. After reporting to the signals commander I was enlightened on the situation. I wondered why there were so many aircraft landing and taking off day and night. We were told we were feeding the German population of Berlin by air air. We reported not only food but other supplies such as coal, oil, baby food and engineering equipment. Anything that was needed to sustain life was bought in by air as there was no other open. I was set to work in the control tower controlling air traffic. The shifts were long as we were in a station operating over 24 hours. Towards the end of my time in Berlin I was sent to RAF Güsserschün in the British zone as they had demodels and made traffic controllers and this had left them short-staffed. I was trying to get a return to Gatto and my brother one evening rang me to see if he could help. There was a celebration going on there and he explained that the Waffes were returning to Britain as it was becoming too dangerous for them to stay because of the Russian occupation, the risk of. I was eventually returned to Britain, Berlin and was put in charge of direct training direction finding unit. In 1949 NATO had just been formed and I had direct contact via a red telephone to NATO headquarters if needed. In January 1950 I was sent to RAF Güsserschün for a rehabilitation course. This was intended to prepare me to go back into civil up civilian life in March of that year. I soon realised it was a scam to get me to sign on for further service. I knew they were looking for wireless operations to go into the east of Germany but I wasn't having any of that. Instead I returned to RAF Kirkham in March 1950 and I was demod from there. I was once again a civilian and returned to my old job. Three months later came at the Korean War. I was recalled and sent to London Airport to retrain on radar and more modern equipment in case I was needed for further service with the RAF. My girlfriend, Faye, was not pleased as we were making plans to marry. I resumed my studies at the North and Piate Polytechnic, after securing my pre-breaths in Bloone. I married by in March 1952 at St Mary Church in D and I was a doctor for the Rifriduation Company. My friend Tom, who was a factory former, and I left the company and obtained some contract work so that we could make enough money to buy our own houses. I bought a house in Sortree. Tom and I were working for a build-on research centre and they asked me if I would like to work for them direct. I joined their design team as a senior architect and stayed there until my retirement in 1995. I carried on privately with my architect consultancy, designing houses and extensions, but as the planning laws and building regulations became more complex, I called it a day and retired gradually, much to my wife's pleasure. That should be gracefully, much to my wife's pleasure. My wife by died in 2009, my daughter Valerie is now retired from a management position with Department of Works and Pensions, and my youngest daughter, Jillian, is still working as a network design development manager. This is my life story, well not all of it, as I'm still alive. True, the end. Ronald Pittman, born 1929. My father, my father Ronald Arthur worked for the Air Ministry. I know that he was pretty high up. He had been transferred from London to Coventry. Every night we would head for the nearest shelter. We were near the Blitz. I remember October the 12th 1942, the biggest day of the Blitz. I recall how we used to go into the recreational realm where shelters had been dug. The following morning we returned to our house. We had to walk home as there were no buses. We discovered that five houses down from our house, there was a parachute stuck on a chimney. On the end was a great big bomb. It hadn't gone off. If it had then, the house in our street would have been destroyed. As mum was walking she kept repeating the words, "I wonder if the house is still there." I think that this must have been enough of my parents as they packed our cases and we walked away from my home. My parents and I walked out of Coventry. I was 11 at the time. They had decided to leave Coventry and head to Northampton. Mum came from Northampton. We would just carry on one case each. The passing driver stopped and asked of where we were going. When we told him of our planned destination he told us that we were going in the wrong way for the bus station. He took us to his house and gave us tea. After tea he took us to the bus station. A really kind act. The next memories are from May Morris, born 1928. My mother's name was Hilda Mann and dad's name was Harry Mann. My brothers were Bill, Harry, John and Ken and sisters Mary and Doreen. I stayed in Chatham. We were going to be inspected by King George so we had been given a few days off. I was in the Naffy Club. Some sailors had arrived from a Royal Navy ship. They had been sailing the Mediterranean. A young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink. I had a cider. He would be back to the Rens quarters. Then he asked me to go to the pictures. The next evening we went to a film. Afterwards he walked me back to the Rens quarters and asked me to marry him. I said no. About 12 months after I had been to my when I was scraping potatoes with my mother she told me that I should write to Cliff. He had been writing to me since I met him. She said I should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore. I said I wouldn't like him to think I hadn't contacted him so I wrote to him and said that I would marry him. He came for his ease to leave to our house. He told me that he had been in the Marines and had been shot in the leg whilst in Burma. We married on August 50th 1950. We spent Christmas together and then he sent the courier on the HMS Constance. For the first four years, Farmerys John never saw him but he used to write every day. When he came back to Plymouth, we saw each other at weekends. When he was demob, we moved to Rons. We had three children, Melanie and Andrew. In his 22 years in the Army, he came out as a well-un officer. Melanie works in education and is a school governor. In works in an office, an Andrew is a postman. They are very good children and are always there for me. On April 25th 2011, my husband died. At the funeral, my daughter's husband read a tribute to him. The love stuff like Lifeboat took his ashes out to sea. He had always loved lowest stuff. We had a mobile bed. We used to have a men's and women's cooperative department. Sarah Wilson worked at the men's outfit at St. Church Street. Sarah was the real historian of Feinden. Soon after arriving in Feinden, I heard that the Labour party needed a secretary and agreed to take on this post. This post was to stand me in the position of being able to stand for the Urban District Council. The three of us who stood there were returned on a post and this was in the 60s. I feel that I have been quite active working in the community and have helped people where I could. It was whilst I was serving on the Urban District Council that I became more aware of what was needed. I had lots of requests for help. It was difficult to meet the needs of everyone as I was working at Greenwich at the time and I left for working in the darkness. I returned in the darkness. I was on the Paris Council right from its inception. I was secretary of the Carnival Break Committee for two years but had to resign from this post when I went to work abroad. I also found with George Anderson of the Community Social. I was the area officer of the Stroke Association after retiring from the social services. Several local people requested that a stroke look was needed and this came from being into being in 1990. I was also a member of the North Anctionship Community Health Council which was a watchdog buddy and I remain within this health council for about four years. I've been secretary of the North Anctionship branch of the Christian Socialist Movement. I am a devout Christian and have been so for most of my life. I always feel that by giving I receive much more in my life. I've tried to do my bit in God's Vineyard. I can't do any more. I always remember the epitaph on someone's grave which read. He who he have done what he could. This is what I would like as an epitaph on my gravestone. What a beautiful thing to do. Land Warner born 1927. Dad died when I was eight and as I was one of five sons life wasn't very easy for my mother. In order to become a breadwinner I left school at the age of 14. I later enrolled in an evening class at the Wellingborough Technical College where I was to remain for some time. I was determined to do something with my life which is why I decided to become a draftsman and develop and understand in about building. I'd always had an interest in architecture and would love to become an architect but due to financial implications coupled with the fact that it would have taken several years to qualify. I followed up my second choice. I worked in the drawing office at Hunter and Penrose but was called up to do a national service and joined the Clerical Department of the RAF. In 1946 where I continued to work as a draftsman having saved enough money whilst in service I was able to enroll on a art and design course at Northampton College. During my time at college I collected a portfolio and it was from this that I was chosen to go and work at a studio in Northampton but I still felt that there was something else that I should have been doing with my life then. I decided that I would prefer to have a job working with people which is why I decided to become an officer in the Salvation Army. By 1939, Mum had moved her business to Abbey Road. As the war had started it was a bad time for her. Rastening came as Mum was selling Parsons pork pies and cockmits. All of these were rastions but her business survived. It was opposite the Prince of Wales pub which is now a home for disabled people. My brother courted the landlord's daughter. My brother was an engine driver. He had passed the 11 plus but Mum couldn't afford to pay for his uniform. As he'd always dreamt of becoming a train driver he wasn't disappointed about not having a grammar school education. He wasn't conscripted as driving trains was of course essential. He used to take up arms and down the country. He used to take arms up and down the country. I smiled now as Mum used to spoil my brother. He was given butter whilst we were given my dream. My sister was nine years older than me. She was a sergeant in the Waffes and was in the Barrage Balloon Unit in London. My oldest brother was a desert rat in Egypt. My other sister was maintaining Wellington bombers which were based at Sirewolf. Dad was a Marine in the Dardanelles. I used to cycle for the ARP in Wellingborough. The unit was based behind what is now Wellingborough Library. There used to be cabins, a cabins there. It was my job to take the messages between the cabins which were based all over Wellingborough. I remember German planes going to commentary on the bombing of Coventry. I clearly remember the Bancole de Mende when a German bomber dropped a bomb in Market Street. At 6pm the alert was sounded in Wellingborough but only moments later. Adorn you to 117 flew over the town dropping 400 kilogram high explosive bombs. They also dropped bombs near the gas tanks in Wellingborough. I went into the town and saw all of the tests. Four women, two men and one boy were killed and 55 injured. There was also extensive damage to houses, factories, churches, hotels, pubs, cinemas as well as the headquarters broadcast relay services. The yanks were coming. The 5 and 4/5 regiment were based in Scotland. My sister went on to marry one of these bombers. They used to stay at the Bieswing which were near the Swat to the Swan's Pool. All the American vehicles and the gear used were stored beneath the trees all along the London Road. Of course all along the London Road was screened from the general public. Early War. I remember when Mosley came with his black shirts and how he marched from Wellingborough scoring up to the senator. The headmaster at the school was a communist. Many doesn't bring happiness. I also recall General De Gaulle visiting Feindor, Feindor and Horn. He had a housekeeper who was a bit of a recluse. I believe that Winston Churchill only got to be prime-ended because of the Labour party. Clement Atley had been in the war office and was the commanding chief. I joined the Labour League of Youth when I was 18. We used to meet at the Econham Road Wellingborough. We couldn't vote until we were 21. Then George Lindigrom was an MP from 1945 and 1946. It was a junior minister in Parliament. The Lindigrom stayed at the Heind Hotel. Mrs Lindigrom used to do her shopping in Wellingborough every Saturday. The YMCA which was at the back of the central hall and this is where was where we used to have gatherings for youth parliament. We used to have lively debates there. There was a potato famine at the time and the Tories would roll potatoes down the central aisle. Anything to cause a diversion. I was at Blackpool from 1955 until '57 and worked with children. I was often working on the beach and was able to use my drawing skills. I was actually based at Aquington Lancanchet. It was a weaving town. I lived in Claret Street. The citadel was next to what had been an entrance to Aquington Mines. The welcome sergeant was a Jamaican. I remember going to his home and that he had so much furniture. Little Mary Rooney was a very good collector for the cause. She was the same. We used to have a meal with Lady Banquof at her big house. We would sit each side of a long table with her at the head of the table. We used to have fish and chips served on a silver salver. We did a poor, poor perfume but no one else could help. So we had to organise this funeral ourselves. There was a poor little lady who had taken three daffodils with someone's garden. She had nothing at all. I officiated at numerous weddings over the years mainly for Salvation Army people but also dedicated about Tisms. The Salvation Army flag always had to be brought in. The Ministerial Training took about 80 months. My mother had a little star when I was ordained. The British Commissioner took the service. There were at least 200 people there and there was a band-glade. I had designed the back scenery to be picked in flowers and crafts on the hill. I was given my first post in a black pool. I'd only recently recovered from about a pneumonia so that was one of the main reasons why I was posted there. A lot of Scots was there. I was at Northern Ireland for three years. It was my job to go around the pubs in the same same bayonet quarters. Salvation Army was accepted there. I traveled down to Dublin by the train. I recall so many people standing on the steps of the cathedral. Kids were begging there. I loved the Belfast people but the powers that moved me on and I went whilst I was still at the top. I remember being at the ferry at midnight and saying goodbye. All the people from the city of Duhr were there. My next posting was a form of them. Was at the Boscombe Citadel. I used to be anxious as I'm not an orator. When I was taking services I was taught to look over people's heads. But there was this holy joke character. He was always trying to correct me. Never. Over the next 12 months would he either he or his wife invite me to their home. They were retired majors and colonels. I used to have a lot to do, a lot of visiting to do. I didn't look careful in major. I was at the bomber for 12 months but during this time I wasn't very happy. They all had to put places in my home whilst I was a lodger and looked after myself. My landlady was lovely but sure I served my mashed potatoes. I went out to avoid the mashed potatoes. I was a youth officer and it was a rough place where gangs were formed. They used to fight but I would tell them that they had to get together or leave. I would say that it was probably my toughest job. I feel that I got very little support whilst I was there. I was demarbed at Lythons and Annes. I remember going to a cafe and having a sausage breakfast. A noose it was provided for me and also my their home. I was then at Whiz Beach. Wherever you go people are different. They were very strawberries and flowers people. I was there for the next 12 months. There was an election and I was walking down the road and saw two people walking towards me. When I recognised immediately as being George Brown I couldn't belong to a political party whilst I was in the Salvation Army. George spoke to me and was very friendly. I thought he was a Prescott sort of person. He came in wearing a blue suit when I spoke at Rushton. He could make contact with people immediately. I remember Bob Castle small and petite with organ hair. She was ferocious. From Whiz Beach I returned to Wellimba College Street where I stayed with my sister, son and her husband. I share a room with my nephew and then needed to find a job necessary for a reference. I attended an interview at Townsend Carriers which was in High and Ferris. A manager arrived one morning at Pike's Row Church Street. I had already explained that I wasn't looking for a welfare job with his firm and so had been truthful. I was offered an accepted employment with this firm and was there for some time. I then got a job at Greenwich. Greenwich where I worked for London County Council. I had 300 on my list but not children. My case files mainly worked around supporting those with learning disabilities. Learning disabilities is a mental illness problem. I soon discovered that many people were not getting their benefit entitlements. All this work was good training for me. I worked with all nationalities. We also helped deafened them and blind clients and because of this I had to learn sign language. I used to have to go one day a week with regards training as well as learning about the organisations I'd later come into contact with. As I was still living in North Amptons here I would catch the 7am bus getting off at Eastfield Road and then catch the 725 on Whiz Beach in St Pancras before catching a train from London Bridge to Woolwich or Greenwich which was where most of my clients were. I was to remain in this job for next to three years. I then returned to North Amptons in 1968. I then found employment as a social worker in Health and Welfare. I applied for the job as a manager at the Gladstone Centre in North Amptons. This centre accepted people who are aged 16 or over. I remained in this job for the next two years. I then tried something really different when I applied for a job working at the Saudi Arabian Embassy where I explained that I had only experienced rather than certificates. I worked in the capital re-ard for the next 12 months. I worked as an advisor to the Ministry of Disabled People. There was no social life. I got a flat near to Dizu and the British Corporation compound with a Saudi guard at the gate. I found that making a friend with this guard was helpful as I managed to get into the embassy at weekends. I remember how they used to make their own drinks. There was an English boy there who owned a sports car which he would drive around the compound. There was also a man there who owned a bungalow. He was disabled. I had been living in a hotel which was opposite the American compound. I used to get my breakfast there. This compound also had its own cinema. I joined a Christian group. I would walk but it wasn't a done thing then. They had coffee shots but if I went into one then I was viewed with suspicion. I got friends with a taxi driver and it was him who helped me to get a flat. I got a bad ear infection which was treated in a free hospital by three doctors. Pakistanis run show that Pakistanis run show the road run the show. Whilst I was there I stayed at two hotels. Sometimes I would go off with the Americans to watch the camel or horse racing. It was amusing watching people trying to get onto the camels. I was in a great big office. There was his fellow there who would just sit with his feet on his desk reading his newspaper. He was supposed to be the boss. I would write out all of my reports. The young Pakistani was my secretary. My report would go to the minister who wanted to be a prince. He would go to see this prince. We would go to see this prince and have to drink his this foul coffee. They would always keep me waiting. The Saudis didn't seem to do the dirty work. King Pye's cell was assassinated. He had big blocks of flats but his people refused to move into them but he stayed instead remained in their shacks. They were quite nice and made of tin. They used to be lovely and maced his part outside these shacks. After my year was up I stayed in friends. I stayed in friends flats in London. In order to find employment and a wage I began working in a market garden nursery. I remained there for the next nine months. I was promoted to be a foreman where I supervised loads of women. It was great. I then found employment as a manager at Willardston. This time I was working for older people. I was driving by then. I used to drive from North Amprinshire to Willardston every day. I remained there until I got a job at Lamberthas manager. Mrs Mary Wilson opened the centre and I had the honour of receiving here. I remained at the centre for the next three years. There was a diverse membership of people there. I used to take this South London perky secretary to Park Lane, Palmel or Dolchester for a meal. Also remember meeting the governor of a prison who I became good friends with. It was all very interesting. We used to get pre-seats for matinees at theatres and we would go on special disabled coaches. We always had three seats. Everybody used to have a whale at the time. We used to stop at Bigglesway, where I used to be put to meal, usually scamp and chips and in winter used to sit beside a great big fire. I still miss those happy times. We would also help people with dementia. Sometimes staff went with us. They were often included on the list. I would say that my proudest moment was when I got into welfare as I had no school certificates. Except I was an elementary boy who managed to achieve something with my efforts and did this for 30 years. I moved to find him in 1965 having resigned from being a Salvation Army officer at Wiz Beach. I enjoyed the social services part of the Salvation Army. I believe that my service in Inception Post was the catalyst which encouraged me to apply for the self-air social welfare officer at Gepkrennish London. There were four candidates for this post. One was at university studying sociology. Another was a welfare assistant and another was at college. There were eight people on the panel. I had by then had an interview with a senior social worker and I had also attended the William Booth College in London. I had been recommended by the Salvation Army to do this course as an officer. I had been given a relax by the Salvation Army. I couldn't be a member of any political party whilst being in the Salvation Army office. But when I retired at the age of 62 I became a member of the Labour Party. I will never change my politics. Nothing is perfect and no one is perfect. Life is temporary. Everything around you is temporary so do what you can, why you can. I don't know what will happen tomorrow. Land Warner born 1927. Dad died when I was eight and as I was one of five sons life wasn't very easy for my mother. In order to become a breadwinner I left school at the age of 14. I later enrolled in an evening class at the William Booth Technical College where I was to remain for some time. I was determined to do something with my life which is why I decided to become a draftsman and develop and understand about building. I'd always had an interest in architecture and would love to have become an architect but due to financial implications coupled with the fact that it would have taken several years to qualify I followed up my second choice. I worked in the drawing office at Hunter and Penrose but was called up to do a national service and joined the Clerical Department of the RAF. In 1940 sets where I continued to work as a draftsman having saved enough money whilst in service I was able to enroll on an art and design course at Northampton College. During my time at college I collected a portfolio and it was from this that I was chosen to go and work at a studio in Northampton but I still felt that there was something else that I should have been doing with my life then. I decided that I would prefer to have a job working with people which is why I decided to become an officer in the Salvation Army. By 1939 Mum had moved her business to Abbey Road as the war had started it was a bad time for her. Rastening came as Mum was selling Parsons pork pies and cockmits all of these were rastions but her business survived. It was opposite the Prince of Wales pub which is now a home for disabled people. My brother courted the landlord's daughter my brother was an engine engine driver. He had passed the 11 plus but Mum couldn't afford to pay for his uniform as he'd always dreamt to become an a train driver. He wasn't disappointed about not having a grammar school education. He wasn't conscripted as driving trains was of course essential. He used to take up arms up and down the country. He used to take arms up and down the country. I smiled now as Mum used to spoil my brother. He was given butter whilst we were given my dream. My sister was nine years older than me. She was a sergeant in the Waffes and was in the Barrage Balloon Unit in London. My oldest brother was a desert rat in Egypt. My other sister was maintaining Wellington bombers which were based at Sirewolf. Dad was a marine in the Dardanelles. I used to cycle for the ARP in Wellingborough. The unit was based behind what is now Wellingborough Library. There used to be cabins there. It was my job to take the messages between the cabins which were based all over Wellingborough. I remember German planes going to commentary on the bombing of Coventry. I clearly remember the Banckology Monday when a German bomb had dropped a bomb in Market Street. At 6pm the alert was sounded in Wellingborough but only moments later. Adorn you to 117 flew over the town dropping four 500 kilogram high explosive bombs. They also dropped bombs near the gas tanks in Wellingborough. I went into the town and saw all of the dust. Four women, two men and one boy were killed and 55 injured. There was also extensive damage to houses, factories, churches, hotels, pubs, cinemas as well as the headquarters broadcast relay services. The yanks were coming. The 545 regiment were based in Scotland. My sister went on to marry one of these bombers. They used to stay at the Bieswing which were near the swap to the Spongepaw. All the American vehicles and the gear used were stored beneath the trees all along London Road. Of course all along London Road was screened from the general public. Early war. I remember when Mosley came with his black shirts and how he marched from Wellingborough school and up to the senator. The headmaster at the school was a communist. Many doesn't bring happiness. I also recall General De Gaulle visiting Feindel, Feindel Hall. He had a housekeeper who was a bit of a recluse. I believe that Winston Churchill only got to be prime minister because of the Labour Party. Clement Attlee had been in the war office and was the commanding chief. I joined the Labour League of youth when I was 18. We used to meet at the Ere Road Wellingborough. We couldn't vote until we were 21. Then George Lindigram was an MP from 1945 in 1946. It was a junior minister in Parliament. The Lindigram stayed at the Heind Hotel. Mrs Lindigram used to do her shopping in Wellingborough every Saturday. The YMCA which was at the back of the central hall and this is where we used to have gatherings for youth parliament. We used to have lively debates there. There was a potato famine at the time and the Tories would roll potatoes down the central aisle. Anything to cause a diversion. I was at Blackpool from 1955 until '57 and worked with children. I was often working on the beach and was able to use my drawing skills. I was actually based at Aquington Lankenshire. It was a weaving town. I lived in Claret Street. The citadel was next to what had been an entrance to Aquington Mines. The welcome sergeant was a Jamaican. I remember going to his home and that he had so much furniture. Little Mary Rooney was a very good collector for the cause. She was the same. We used to have a meal with Lady Banquof at her big house. We would sit each side of a long table with her at the head of the table. We used to have fish and chips served on a silver salver. We did a poor porvish film but no one else could help. So we had to organise this funeral ourselves. There was this poor little lady who had taken three daffodils for someone's garden. She had nothing at all. I officiated at numerous weddings over the years mainly for Salvation Army people but also dedicated at baptisms. The Salvation Army flag always had to be brought in. Ministerial training took about 80 months. My mother had a little style when I was ordained. The British Commissioner took the service. There were at least 200 people there and there was a bandlaid. I had designed the bat scenery to be picked in flowers and crafts on the hill. I was given my first post in a black pool. I'd only recently recovered from about a pneumonia so that was one of the main reasons why I was posted there. A lot of Scots was there. I was at Northern Ireland for three years. It was my job to go around the pubs in the same place. The same place in the headquarters. Salvation Army was accepted there. I travelled down to Dublin by the train. I recall so many people standing on the steps of the cathedral. The kids were begging there. I loved the Belfast people but the powers that being moved me on and I went whilst I was still at the top. I remember being at the ferry at midnight and saying goodbye to all the people from the city of the Dalwell there. My next posting was a form. The Boscombe Citadel. I used to be anxious as I'm not an orator. When I was taking services I was taught to look over people's heads. But there was this holy joke character. He was always trying to correct me. Never over the next 12 months would he either he or his wife invite me to their home. They were retired majors and colonels. I used to have a lot to do a lot of visiting to do. I didn't make care of the major. I was at the bomber for 12 months but during this time I wasn't very happy. They all had to avoid places and nice homes whilst I was a lodger and looked after myself. My landlady was lovely but she was serving mashed potatoes. I went out to avoid the mashed potatoes. I was a youth officer and it was a rough place where gangs were formed. They used to fight but I would tell them that they had to get together or leave. I would say that it was probably my toughest job. I feel that I got very little support whilst I was there. I was demarked at Livingston and I remember going to a cafe and having a sausage breakfast. A new suit was provided for me and also my fair home. I was then at Wispych. Wherever you go people are different. They were very strawberries and flowers people. I was there for the next 12 months. There was an election and I was walking down the road and saw two people walking towards me. When I recognised immediately as being George Brown I couldn't belong to a political party whilst I was in the Salvation Army. George spoke to me and was very friendly. I thought he was a Prescott sort of person. He came in wearing a blue suit when I spoke at Rushton. He could make contact with people immediately. I remember Bob Castle small and petite with organ hair. She was ferocious. From Wispych I returned to Wellimbaa College Street where I stayed with my sister, son and her husband. I share a room with my nephew and then needed to find a job necessary for a reference. I attended an interview at Townsend Carriers which was in Haim Ferris. A manager arrived one morning at Pike's Zero Church Street. I had already explained that I wasn't looking for a welfare job with his firm and so had been truthful. I was offered an accepted employment with this firm and was there for some time. I then got a job at Greenwich. I worked for London County Council. I had 300 on my list but not children. My case files mainly worked around supporting those with learning disabilities and mental illness problems. I soon discovered that many people were not getting their benefit entitlements. All this work was good training for me. I worked with all nationalities. We also helped deafened and blind clients and because of this I had to learn sign language. I used to have to go one day a week with regards training as well as learning about the organisations. I'd later come into contact with as I was still living in Northampton, G.I would catch the 7am bus getting off for Eastfield Road and then catch the 725 on Wellimbaa to St Pancras before catching a train from London Bridge to Woolwich or Greenwich which was where most of my clients were. I was to remain in this job for next to three years. I then returned to Northampton in 1968. I then found employment as a social worker in Health and Welfare. I applied for the job as a manager at the Gladstone Centre in Northampton. This centre accepted people who were aged 16 or over. I remained in this job for the next two years. I then tried something really different when I applied for a job working at the Saudi Arabian Embassy where I explained that I had only experienced rather than certificates. I worked in the capital re-ard for the next 12 months. I worked as an advisor to the Ministry of Disabled People. There was no social life. I got a flat near to the zoo and the British Corporation compound with a Saudi guard at the gate. I found that making a friend with this gate was with this guard was helpful as I managed to get into the embassy at weekends. I remember how they used to make their own drinks. There was an English boy there who owned a sports car which he would drive around the compound. There was also a man there who owned a bungalow. He was disabled. I had been living in a hotel which was opposite the American compound. I used to get my breakfast there. This compound also had its own cinema. I joined a Christian group. I would walk but it wasn't a done thing then. They had coffee shots but if I went into one then I was viewed with suspicion. I got friends with a taxi driver and it was him who helped me to get a flat. I got a bad ear infection which was treated in a free hospital by three doctors. Pakistanis run show that Pakistanis run show the road run the show. While I was there I stayed at two hotels. Sometimes I would go off with the Americans to watch the camel or horse racing. It was amusing watching people trying to get onto the camels. I was in a great big office. There was his fellow there who would just sit with his feet on his desk reading his newspaper. He was supposed to be the boss. I would write out all of my reports. The young Pakistani was my secretary. My report would go to the minister who wanted to be a prince. He would go to see this prince. We would go to see this prince and have to drink his this foul coffee. They would always keep me waiting. The Saudis didn't seem to do the dirty work. King Pye's cell was assassinated. He had big blocks of flats but his people refused to move into them but instead remained in their shacks. They were quite nice and made of tin. They used to be lovely and Mercedes parked outside these shacks. After my year was up I stayed in friends. I stayed in friends flats in London. In order to find employment and a wage I began working in a market garden nursery. I remained there for the next nine months. I was promoted to be a foreman where I supervised loads of women. It was great. I then found employment as a manager at Willardston. This time I was working for older people. I was driving by then. I used to drive from North Amprinshire to Willardston every day. I remained there until I got a job at Lamberthas a manager. Mrs Mary Wilson opened the centre and I had the honour of receiving here. I remained at the centre for the next three years. There was a diverse membership of people there. I used to take this South London Perky Secretary to Park Lane, Palmau or Dolchester for a meal. Also remember meeting the governor of a prison who I became good friends with. It was all very interesting. We used to get pre-seats for matinees at theatres and we would go on special disabled coaches. We always had three seats. Everybody used to have a whale at the time. We used to stop at Biggles Wave Perk where I used to be put to meal, usually scamp and chips and in winter used to sit beside a great big fire. I still miss those happy times. We would also help people with dementia. Sometimes staff went with us. They were often included on the list. I would say that my proudest moment was when I got into welfare as I had no school certificates. Except I was an elementary boy who managed to achieve something with my efforts and did this for 30 years. I moved to find in 1965 having resigned from being a Salvation Army officer at Whiz Beach. I enjoyed the social services part of the Salvation Army. I believe that my service in such a post was the catalyst which encouraged me to apply for the self-air social welfare officer at Gepk Greenwich London. There were four candidates for this post. One was at university studying sociology. Another was a welfare assistant and another was at college. There were eight people on the panel. I had by then had an interview with a senior social worker and I had also attended the William Booth College in London. That had been recommended by well in the Salvation Army to do this cause. As an officer I had been given a relax by the Salvation Army. I couldn't be a member of any political party while being in the Salvation Army office. But when I retired at the age of 62 I became a member of the Labour Party. I will never change my politics. Nothing is perfect and no one is perfect. Life is temporary. Everything around you is temporary. So do what you can, why you can. I don't know what will happen tomorrow. Blen Warner, born 1927. Dad died when I was eight and as I was one of five sons life wasn't very easy for my mother. In order to become a breadwinner I left school at the age of 14. I later enrolled in an evening class while in protecting college where I was to remain for some time. I was determined to do something with my life which is why I decided to become a draftsman and develop and understand about building. I'd always had an interest in architecture and would love to have become an architect but due to financial implications coupled with the fact that it would have taken several years to qualify. I followed up my second choice. I worked in the drawing office at Hunter and Penrose but was called up to do a national service and joined the Clerical Department of the RAF. In 1940 sets where I continued to work as a draftsman having saved enough money whilst in service I was able to enroll on an art and design course at Northampton College. During my time at college I collected the portfolio and it was from this that I was chosen to go and work at a studio in Northampton but I still felt that there was something else that I should have been doing with my life then. I decided that I would prefer to have a job working with people which is why I decided to become an officer in the Salvation Army. By 1939 Mum had moved her business to Abbey Road as the war had started it was a bad time for her. Rastening came as Mum was selling Parsons pork pies and cock meats all of these were rations but her business survived. It was opposite the Prince of Wales pub which is now a home for disabled people. My brother courted the landlord's daughter my brother was an engine driver. He had passed the 11 plus but Mum couldn't afford to pay for his uniform as he'd always dreamt to become an a train driver. He wasn't disappointed about not having a grammar school education. He wasn't conscripted as driving trains was of course essential. He used to take up arms up and down the country. He used to take arms up and down the country. I smiled now as Mum used to spoil my brother he was given butter whilst we were given my dream. My sister was nine years older than me. She was a sergeant in the West and was in the Barrage Balloon unit in London. My oldest brother was a desert rat in Egypt. My other sister was maintaining Wellington bombers which were based at Sirewell. Dad was a Marine in the Dardinelles. I used to cycle for the ARP in Wellingborough. The unit was based behind what is now Wellingborough library. There used to be cabins there it was my job to take the messages between the cabins which were based all over Wellingborough. I remember German planes going to commentary on the bombing of Coventry. I clearly remember the Bancole D'Amendi when a German bomber dropped a bomb in Market Street. At 6pm the alert was sounded in Wellingborough but only moments later Adornia 217 flew over the town dropping four, dropping four 500 kilogram high exclusive bombs. They also dropped bombs near the gas tanks in Wellingborough. I went into the town and saw all of the tourists. Four women, two men and one boy were killed and 55 injured. There was also extensive damage to houses, factories, churches, hotels, pubs, cinemas as well as the headquarters broadcast relay services. The yanks were coming. The five and four, five regimental based in Scotland. My sister went on to marry one of these bombers. They used to stay at the beeswing which were near the swap to the swanspull. All the American vehicles and the gear used was stored beneath the trees all along London Road. Of course all along London Road was screened from the general public. Early war. I remember when Mosley came with his black shirts and how he marched from Wellingborough scoring up to the senator. The headmaster at the school was a communist. Many doesn't bring happiness. I also recall General De Gaulle visiting Feindor Feindon Hall. He had a housekeeper who was a bit of a recluse. I believe that Winston Churchill only got to be prime music because of the Labour Party. Clement Atley had been in the war office and was the commanding chief. I joined the Labour League of youth when I was 18. We used to meet at the Eckhamen Road Wellingborough. We couldn't vote until we were 21. Then George Lindigrom was an MP from 1945 and 1946. It was a junior minister in Parliament. The Lindigrom stayed at the Heind Hotel. Mrs Lindigrom used to do her shopping in Wellingborough every Saturday. The YMCA which was at the back of the central hall and this is where was where we used to have gatherings for youth Parliament. We used to have lively debates there. There was a potato famine at the time and the Tories would roll potatoes down the central aisle. Anything to cause a diversion. I was at Blackpool from 1955 until '57 and what were children. I was often working on the beach and was able to use my drawing skills. I was actually based at Aquington Lancanchet. It was a weaving town. I lived in Claret Street. The citadel was next to what had been an entrance to Aquington Mines. The welcome sergeant was a Jamaican. I remember going to his home and that he had so much furniture. Little Mary Rooney was a very good collector for the cause. She was the same. We used to have a meal with Lady Banquof at her big house. We would sit each side of a long table with her at the head of the table. We used to have fish and chips served on a silver salver. We did a poor ball this film but no one else could help. So we had to organise this funeral ourselves. There was a poor little lady who had taken three daffodils with someone's garden. She had nothing at all. I officiated at numerous weddings over the years mainly for Salvation Army people but also dedicated at baptisms. The Salvation Army flag always had to be brought in. The Ministerial Training took about 80 months. My mother had a little star when I was ordained. The British Commissioner took the service. There were at least 200 people there and there was a band blame. I had designed the back scenery to be picked in flowers and crafts on the hill. I was given my first post in a black pool. I'd only recently recovered from about a pneumonia so that was one of the main reasons why I was posted there. A lot of Scots was there. I was at Northern Isle over three years. It was my job to go around the pubs in the same bayonet quarters. Salvation Army was accepted there. I travelled down to Dublin by the train. I recall so many people standing on the steps of the cathedral. Kids were big in there. I loved the Belfast Belfast people but the powers that had been moved me on and I went whilst I was still at the top. I remember being at the ferry at midnight and sang goodbye. All the people from the citadel were there. My next posting was a form of them. Was at the Boscombe Citadel. I used to be anxious as I'm not an orator. When I was taking services I was taught to look over people's heads. But there was this holy joke character. He was always trying to correct me. Never. Over the next 12 months would he either he or his wife invite me to their home. There were retired majors and colonels. I used to have a lot to do, a lot of visiting to do. I didn't look careful in major. I was at the bomber for 12 months but during this time I wasn't very happy. They all had good places and nice homes whilst I was a lodger and looked after myself. My landlady was lovely but sure I served my mashed potatoes. I went out to avoid the mashed potatoes. I was a youth officer and it was a rough place where gangs were formed. They used to fight but I would tell them that they had to get together or leave. I would say that it was probably my toughest job. I feel that I got very little support whilst I was there. I was demobed at Livingston and I remember going to a cafe and having a sausage breakfast. A new suit was provided for me and also my fair home. I was then at Whiz Beach. Wherever you go people are different. They were very strawberries and flowers people. I was there for the next 12 months. There was an election and I was walking down the road and saw two people walking towards me. When I recognised immediately as being George Brown I couldn't belong to a political party whilst I was in the Salvation Army. George spoke to me and was very friendly. I thought he was a Prescott sort of person. He came in wearing a blue suit when I spoke at Rushton. He could make contact with people immediately. I remember Bob Castle small and petite with organ hair. She was ferocious. From Whiz Beach I returned to Wellimba College Street where I stayed with my sister and her husband. I shared a room with my nephew and then needed to find a job necessary for a reference. I attended an interview at Townsend Carriers which was in High and Ferris. A manager arrived one morning at Pike's Road Church Street. I had already explained that I wasn't looking for a welfare job with his firm and so had been truthful. I was offered an unaccepted employment with this firm and was there for some time. I then got a job at Greenwich. Greenwich where I worked for London County Council. I had 300 on my list but not children. My case files mainly worked around supporting those with learning disabilities. Learning disabilities is a mental illness problem. I soon discovered that many people were not getting their benefit entitlements. All this work was good training for me. I worked with all nationalities. We also helped deafened and blind clients and because of this I had to learn sign language. I used to have to go one day a week with regards training as well as learning about the organisations I'd later come into contact with. As I was still living in Northampton GI I would catch the 7am bus getting off the Eastfield Road and then catch the 725 on one in British St Pancras before catching a train from London Bridge to Woolwich or Greenwich which was where most of my clients were. I was to remain in this job for next to three years. I then returned to Northampton in 1968. I then found employment as a social worker in Health and Welfare. I applied for the job as a manager at the Gladstone Centre in Northampton. This centre accepted people who were aged 16 or over. I remained in this job for the next two years. I then tried something really different when I applied for a job working at the Saudi Arabian Embassy where I explained that I'd only experienced rather than certificates. I worked in the capital re-ard for the next 12 months. I worked as an advisor to the Ministry of Disabled People. There was no social life. I got a flat near to Dizu and the British Corporation compound with a Saudi guard at the gate. I found that making a friend with this guard was helpful as I managed to get into the embassy at weekends. I remember how they used to make their own drinks. There was an English boy there who owned a sports car which he would drive around the compound. There was also a man there who owned a bungalow. He was disabled. I had been living in a hotel which was opposite the American compound. I used to get my breakfast there. This compound also had its own cinema. I joined a Christian group. I would walk but it wasn't a dumb thing then. They had coffee shots but if I went into one then I was viewed with suspicion. I got friends with a taxi driver and it was him who helped me to get a flat. I got a bad ear infection which was treated in a free hospital by three doctors. Pakistanis run show the show. Whilst I was there I stayed at two hotels. Sometimes I would go off with the Americans to watch the camel or horse racing. It was amusing watching people trying to get onto the camel. I was in a great big office. There was his fellow there who would just sit with his feet on his desk reading his newspaper. He was supposed to be the boss. I would write out all of my reports. The young Pakistani was my secretary. My report would go to the ministry wanting to be a prince. He would go to see this prince and have to drink his this foul coffee. They would always keep me waiting. The Saudis didn't seem to do the dirty work. King Piusel was assassinated. He had big blocks of flats but his people refused to move into them but he stayed instead remained in their shacks. They were quite nice and made of tin. They used to be lovely and Mercedes parked outside these shacks. After my year was up I stayed in friends. I stayed in friends flats in London. In order to find employment and a wage I began working in a market garden nursery and I remained there for the next nine months. I was promoted to be a foreman where I supervise loads of women. It was great. I then found employment as a manager at Wollstone. This time I was working for older people. I was driving by then. I used to drive from North Amprinshire to Wollstone every day. I remained there until I got a job at Lambeth as a manager. Mrs Mary Wilson opened the centre and I had the honour of receiving here. I remained at the centre for the next three years. There was a diverse membership of people there. I used to take this South London Perky Secretary to Park Lane, Palmaal or Dolchester for a meal. I also remember meeting the governor of a prison who I became good friends with. It was all very interesting. We used to get free seats for matinees at theatres and we would go on special display disabled coaches. We always had free seats. Everybody used to have a whale at the time. We used to stop at Bigglesway where I had to be easily booked to meal, usually scamp and chips and in winter used to sit beside a great big fire. I still miss those happy times. We would also help people with dementia. Sometimes staff went with us. They were often included on the list. I would say that my proudest moment was when I got into welfare as I had no school certificate. Except I was an elementary boy who managed to achieve something with my efforts and did this for 30 years. I moved to find him in 1965 having resigned from being a Salvation Army officer at Whiz Beach. I enjoyed the social services part of the Salvation Army. I believe that my service servicing in such a post was the catalyst which encouraged me to apply for the self-air social welfare officer at Gepk Renishland and there were four candidates for this post. One was at University studying sociology. Another was a welfare assistant and another was at college. There were eight people on the panel. I then had an interview with a senior social worker and I had also attended the William Booth College in London. I had been recommended by Wellingborough Salvation Army to do this course. As an officer I'd been given a lunch by the Salvation Army. I couldn't be a member of any political party whilst being in the Salvation Army office but when I retired at the age of 62 I became a member of the Labor Party. I will never change my politics. Nothing is perfect and no one is perfect. Life is temporary. Everything around you is temporary so do what you can, why should you can. I don't know what will happen tomorrow. If there wasn't a nearby school we would be taught by someone at the nearest Army camp. We had a lovely time when the Marahajah sent his elephants up to pick us up. We would sit on a seat on the elephant. It was great fun. Dad would go shooting. If a child had been taken by a wild animal he would go out and shoot it. We had walls around the house. Two men with guns would always be on guard. We had a very earthquake at Koehter. When many people were killed my parents were away at one of the other camps. If it hadn't been for our servants who stole food for us we could have starved. We didn't know where our father was for three years as he had been sent to or where he had been sent to. He didn't know where we were either. I think that the film Little Princess really reflected my life. My eldest brother and my stepbrother were captured by the Japanese. One was a gunnery officer. I was beaten. All his teeth and nails were taken out. He refused to answer any of their questions during the interrogation. Within 24 hours he was dead. We didn't know where he was buried. My younger brother was in hospital for two years. I realized that many people now live in Japan. In 2014 were not even born then. I hope that nothing such as the awful experiences suffered by some prisoners then will ever be repeated. I was six months older when I was taken to India. Returning home 15 years later took us six weeks as we were being chased by submarines floating mines everything. I recall how we never took our life jackets off. When we arrived home we saw arts and uncles that we never knew we had. I had always dreamed of becoming a nurse when I left school. So when I left school at the age of 18 however in the meantime I had caught chicken pots and metals. When I went for my interview to become a nurse I was informed that I wouldn't be fit enough to become a nurse. Of course I was very disappointed. I immediately decided to join the army instead. I recalled how I was given a queen shilling for food for a day. I still have this shilling. I ended up by being in charge of 24 girls. There were sometimes bad peas in the pot. I recall a girl with lovely blonde hair. I discovered that some of the girls were bullied in this girl. I took the bullies to the train and put them on it. The bully girl threw herself into the river and drowned. I had to identify the girl and then go on to tell her parents she was an only child. I'm aware that bullying still happens even in 2014. It's essential that all bullies are reported and thrown out wherever that this happens to be. I met my husband when I was in the army. He came to collect 15 of my girls for work which was either in the cookhouse or the officer's mess. We got talking during the journey. He asked me to go to the pictures with him and I said yes. We married on January 15th 1949. I'd left the army on January 1st after being demobbed. I was quite unhappy to see the men getting suits, shirts, boots, etc. whilst women got a £10 note and clothing coupons. It was so unfair. We did the same job as men but got nothing in comparison. I was lucky in that I had support for my husband to be calling. We had two boys and two girls were born in 1949, 51, 55 and 62. I'm happy to say that they have all done well in life. One of my sons worked as a carpenter for Marius and finished in a senior position. My other son passes 11 plus to go to grandma's school but his friends were going to secondary modern school. He went there instead. One of my sons breeds Norwich canaries. They are such beautiful birds. Many of the birds I've brought by people living abroad. My son won't send them away so the purchaser has to come and fetch the canary. My son writes in the Birds and Avries magazine. He often travels abroad to judge. We move to Ringsted Northamptonshire soon after our marriage. I remained in the same house until my health deteriorated. Then we moved to a bungalow in Ringsted. My husband had a bag for when he was outside. Fortunately, boys from Thrapson school heard his cries for help as they were passing their home. They helped to bring him into their house which I was very grateful. In an interview I've reported these boys after I had contacted the newspaper. I feel that it is important that kind actions are recognised. My husband and I had a good life together and shared the same interest of boring and Latin dancing. We danced among other places at Weymouth. We would stay for the week on holiday, developing our dancing skills, often being televised. Len Goldman taught us once. We would dance during the day and then be judged in the evening. I love coming to come to a care, a heron roins. Due to osteoarthritis and rheumatism, I can't walk very far now. This is a wonderful place to come to. If I didn't come here twice a week, all I would have would be four walls to look at. I missed my husband who died in 2012, the end of this story. Helen Ferry, born 1927. I was born at the Army Hospital as that was in the Army. That started as a stable boy and ended as a lieutenant colonel. My father William James Alfred Withers was born in 1890. My mother, E.T. Throws, was born at Farmborough near Aldershot in 1886. She was a nurse and also a matron in the Army. My sister Betty was born in India in 1924. She was only three pounds at birth. She was a wonderful little girl. She passed her 11th person and went to Bearwood Grammar School. It was why she was studying at Pymwood so that she died from T.A.T.B. I had a step brother and two brothers. The eldest was also in the Army and had the same name as my father Withers is a real Birmingham name. I didn't attend a proper school for very long when I was in India. Sometimes I went to a convent. We moved every six months. When it was very hot, we went to schools up in the hills. I now move on to the next story in Liza, this is Mona Wallace who was born 1926 and it's on page 88 of Lives Less Ordinary. I was born in Barry's South Wales. From school I did a shorthand and typing course. From this building during the Second World War we could see bombs being dropped on Barry Docks. I got a job with British line film distribution in Cardiff as a secretary. I met Ronald Wallace when my mother used to organise social gatherings for the servicemen at St. Athan RAF Base. After the war we moved to London where we lived for the next 62 years. Ronald's mum died and so we cared for his dad and his brother. We had a son Anthony who worked part-time in a shop called Lictons however Anthony married and moved away. Later in life I had a job at Knapp West in Central London and what there until I retired. When my husband died I moved to Rawens to be near my son and daughter-in-law. Later I became unwell and they now take very good care of me. I look forward to coming to Cando. Cando Cando Cando Cando Cando Cando Cando was in Rawens. Brenda Mab I was born to Sydney Gambour, a mum, Marion Elizabeth. Mum was born in Yarmouth whilst my dad was born at Naysby. Mum was 96 when she died. Dad worked as a groundsman at the boiling green in Yarmouth. Where we lived and where I was born there were rows of houses. They were so close that you were able to reach over and touch the hand of the person who lived opposite you. We moved when I was age six. Sadly all these houses were bombed. I was born in row number 100 and at house number six. I had two brothers. One brother is now about 95 but we lost my other brother some years ago. We all moved to the coast where Mum ran a bed and breakfast place. During the summer she would have holiday makers whilst in the winter she would take in Scottish girls. These girls used to gut the herrings. They used to be troughs where the herrings were kept. The men, Coopers, used to make the barrels used to store the herrings in. I went to Greenacre School for Girls which was in Abmottoo Road. I didn't like school. I managed to leave school just as the war started in 1939. Our family went to live with an aunt who lived in Heston Middlesex as a safer place to live. At the bottom of our garden we had an Anderson shelter which accommodated five of us. Our uncle used to keep watch. We also had shelters called Morrison's. Basically this was like a great big table which was reinforced. We would go there if we needed shelter quickly. I had a sister who was bombed out. When living in Coventry they all ran for their lives then. I managed to complete just one day at my first job. I was working at McFarland which was a biscuit factory. The smell of baking biscuits made me feel sick. From there I went to work as a lift operator at the car up in Middlesex. After this I worked for Pyrene who made fire extinguishers. A relative manager managed to get me a job at Technicolor. This was an American firm. A lot of our family were working there. I was a filing clerk for a while before going on to what I view as my proper job doing films. There were only three colours that we worked with when we were there which were yellow, cyan and magenta. The firm was a film post in industry with a machine on the top floor. This machine was called IB. Anyway, blank films will run through hence the colouring films. 35 MM wide were then placed into cans, tins for shipping to various places. I worked in the shipping department and had to wear white gloves whilst checking the end films to protect them. Although the walls are and I was very happy working at Technicolor. My lovely workmate Joe, nicknamed Rusty, worked there. We have what we'll call faults above ground and outside the factory which was called a plant. There was quite a funny thing which happened once. We needed a couple of spare tins so I went to the vault with a chap called Alf. We put the light on from outside and then went in. However, once we were inside someone slammed the door a lot just both in. Six nickname was bunk. He was called that. He was able to reach upper shelves in the plant by being bumped up. There was a field now where women were potato picking. Suddenly they were bombed and all the women killed. They were hit by doodle box bugs. You could only know that you were about to be bombed when the engine cut out. I recall how I was in bed when I saw a doodle bug with a sound like a motorbike engine going off. When I saw a light in the tail I realised that it wasn't for us. It was like land mines going off. I was cycling home with two lads when a land mine was dropped close to our house. The window glass fell into our house and there was glass everywhere. When Dad arrived home he wondered where his whiskey had gone. He was told that my mum and aunt had drunk it. The boy is Charles and Derek who had so good home with me helped clear all the glass up. I first made contact with a SIRS Plovisman and became a pen friend. His name one of many was in a newspaper. The lady who had organised it all sent me Henry Ernest to be in my pen pen. I was about 18 when I started writing and he was 20. When I eventually met him for the first time I had to wear some sort of identification. I wore a grey coat, had a black bag and carried a green chiffon scarf. No sooner I got him home he became mum's blue-eyed boy. We married on the 26th March 1949 at St Peter's Church, Hounds Low West. I had a wedding dress made out of satin that my boyfriend had bought back from Malta. We had one Ted Wedding Cake handmade by my work, Colle Pan. It was my only bridesmaid. I had a daughter Pauline who also lives in Morn. She brings me to Candoo Care. My other daughter is now 60 lives in Lincoln. One daughter works as a cleaner and the other works on the checkout of Kectrine Tesco's. I had six runs since and seven great grandchildren. Some time ago I lived in Lincoln but my son-in-law told his wife to arrange for me to live closer to them. I actually live in a self-contained room with her link to their house. I feel that I'm looked after so well by them. I've arranged a paper both my daughters to have a holiday to Yarmith this year. We are busy saviying our substances which we plan to spend in the slot machines there. I love coming to Saxon Hall with rawns as I have so many friends who also come here where we are able to always take care of. I used to enjoy knitting but due to arthritis I'm unable to knit anymore but I keep busy doing word search, crosswords or watching the countdown. I love that too. Joan Jones born 1923. My mother Ethel May was born at Milton Malzer in 1899. It was my father, Henry James, was born in 1903 near the Mount Snorthumpton. I don't know anything about my grandfathers but I do know that my grandmother Sarah Langley died at the age of 75 in 1933. My other grandmother, Granny Hodge died when I was older. I had one older brother. My grandmother had 15 children, some were twins. I attended St Andrew's Church when I was five. I remember that once I was talking to a boy who I was sitting next to, a teacher made me stay in. I was peeved about this. I decided I wasn't going to stop him but instead decided to go home. I managed to lift the latch of this heavy door and slipped out. My father was a craftsman who made big opera boots for the stage. I think that the firm he worked for was called whites. I'd often go with my mum to take sandwiches to dad. He would be where the leathers were hanging to be dried. The factory was just off Edmonton Street. Tonneries were quite dangerous places then. Before mum married, she told me that she had once known someone who worked in a big house in the village. A lord and lady lived there. Apparently it used to practice to have two nages sleeping in the house to keep it out, aired when the residents were away. My mum was a model in the 50s. She modeled for a lady who made gowns. Dad died in 1947. Mum later remarried and then went to live in York. Granny Langley was a kind and bun lady. I loved it when she made me chocolate drinks. Auntie Maglev next door to Granny at Rose Cottage, Mears Aspie. The cottage was at the top of the lane. I worked in a shoe shop whilst I was still at school. It was my job to go and get the pieces of leather. Let's had the shoe shop and the grand jury. They sold pieces of leather to my dad. This is actually how it came to be that I got my job after leaving school. I was 14 then. I was shown how to do different jobs and also how to sell the shoes to the customers. The manager of this door worked upstairs. She and her partner belonged to a local drama group. They needed more people to work in the shop. I was taught about actually buying the shoes. We bought from high quality shoe firms including Barfas of Ells Barton. We also bought from the Furby in Regent Street, North Ouncheon over the Mount. It was near Brook Manufacturers. A Chinese laundry, haulage contractors and the employment exchange. I was at the same shop for about three years. I lived the day I went to a shoe fair in London. We had snacks at Lion's Cornerhouse. What I didn't much like was going on the tube train. Despite being scared, I was also excited. I had to buy my dress when I worked at Let's a Shoes. The manager of the next firm didn't want me to wear the shoes. I had got from Let's a I had to comply. I didn't like this job very much so gave me my notice but didn't have another job to go to. I then went to work at a shop in Broad Street where they sold beds. I had to go into this room with a large air vent. This was where the mattresses were filled with stuffing. The women wouldn't let me use the machine so I left. It was then that I found this job at the studio in Naurington, North Ouncheon. I was 19 when I left this job but whilst I was still at my first job I trained another girl to do what I was doing. I thought that I should ask Mr Cooper if I could have a wait rise. He replied if I give you a wait rise then I would have to give all the other girls a wait rise. I wasn't very happy with what he told me so decided to go for another job at the studio in Naurington Street, North Ouncheon. I was offered a job with them. I returned to my then current employer and told him I was going to take the job. I'd just been offered. It was at this point that he offered me an increase in my wages at the Henry Cooper studio. It was my job to retuck thin infections on the pictures. It was a bit like the airbrush in which is done to photography today. We had this little frame and the film was on a glass plate. The negative was back to front. If I saw something like a pocket flap on a wedge dress that didn't look right then it would be my job to try and fill it in. I remember I will flim being at the downgate when I was working at the shoe shopping in the drapery. I worked at five and a half days a week. There wasn't a lot of money in our house so most of my wages would have been needed at home. I would have to save it for my clothes and used to buy them for Mabington Street. I think that my wage then would have been about 50 shillings a week. There was this girl who said she knew how old as he had stayed at their boarding house. She said how he had helped to pay for his lodges with a box of chocolates. I once went to the exchange a cinema in the market square. It was all very flesh and round. I recall how there was this restaurant in the exchange and there was a waitress service with food that I hadn't eaten before. There were these lovely white tablecloths and you didn't have to book. We could go to Yarmouth when I was about 12. We stayed with the landlady called Mrs. Angels. The mum would buy the food for a saw and Mr. Change would cook to it. We would catch the steam train from Northampton. The train didn't have any toilets so we would have to wait until the water turned the degree filling and then rushed to the toilet then. I was afraid that I might miss the train. Sometimes we would have to sit on the luggage. There was a first, second and third class of travel, travel at this time. I think that this was about 1935. I remember how I told my mum that I wanted to learn to dance. She taught me to a lady who lived in a house just off Grafgen Street Northampton. Northampton has changed so much since. I was younger. I used to go rollerskating with Rhine. He was a good skater. He also liked to swim and dive. There was this young French reaganor who I was friend with. He was shot down and killed during the war. I used to go on a motorbike with the boy who would later become my husband. Of course there were no rules then about wearing helmets. He lived next door to me. So I did bury the boy who lived next door. I married one old Hamilton Jones in the 40s. We were engaged when I was 16 but didn't get married until I was 20. We made up the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Northampton. There was an unusual dome on this church. I believe that the font came from a church in Jerusalem. Rhine was in the world for Air Force during the war. He was in Canada. He created the Dights for the Officers. This was a specialist job. He was in Pennhold Calgary. He made friends with an older lady who looked after some of the servicemen. She had a rather pretty granddaughter. This lady sent us a beautiful tablecloth when we later got married. Rhine bought me things like beautiful stockings and silk underwear. During the war I was sent to Ilferkram where I worked as a nursing organellary. I had been in the Red Cross by to being sent in there and that must have helped me. This was about the time when Mon returned home from Canada. I was in the Army camp which was near Teliavera Race Course. I did some square bashing at the camp. I was later sent to Bournemouth. I was then in what was called a holding unit. I was in the Princess Alexander nursing team. It was generally meant in the in the painting that we cared for. And man in his late six this happened to take rather a shine to me. He was a doctor. I gave out a lot of medicines which were called 99s which were intended to help men with digestion problems. One of my patients was to come one of my duties was to accompany patients who had to go to hospital. There was once this young girl who said she had swallowed an needle. She was made to eat cotton or sandwich. I was in the unit for about 18 months and was happy there. I saw my wedding dress on a model in the shop window when I was at Boscombe and just fell in love with it. It cost £15. I had to have it. I had one bridesmaid. We didn't go on honeymoon but instead went to see Aka-thos pray play the mousetrap. It was a tight squeeze where I sat between two big people either side of me. I couldn't sit next to Ron. When we were first married we stayed at my parents house but shortly after we went to live with Ron's dad's family. There were two main bedrooms and there was a box room. His father, grandfather and brother lived there so it was a bit overcrowded. It was the bad window of 1947 when we were off at our council house. The pre-fab house was very cold in the winter. There was a copper boiler. I would have to put my coat on in the winter. We did have an outside toilet as well as an inside toilet. My daughter Pam left school when she was 15. She went to work in a stationary whole sailor but they also sold household goods, cards and toys. One of my sons had an apprenticeship with Brevets where he lent the skill of knife making. My other two daughters worked as Nanny's in America for a couple of years. I now have 13 grandchildren and 10 great children. Grandchildren with another on the way. I left Jervis. I was born at home to Mother Annie and father Edward Liedham. Father was born in Birmingham in 1895 and Mum was born the same year. Dad worked for yorks cutting souls for children's shoes before going to work at a shoe factory at the bottom of sheep's tree. Mum was employed by Chamberlain's which was a slipper factory in Polk Road. She later worked for gents where she made gloves. When dad wasn't working he would be busy with his allotment or working in his garden. The garden field was in Chester Road. It was our job every Sunday to go and pick the vegetables for Sunday dinner. Mum always had a cut of brisket which she would boil. We then take it to the bakers in Winstonley Road where where he actually put in would be cooked around it. My brother's job was to take a job to the off-license in near New Comer Road where they were fetch a pint of beer. Sometimes they'd have a sip so they would add water to the top of the jug up again as soon as they got home. Dad used to drive us to Galston near Yama for our annual holidays which stay in an apartment. Mum still had to shop and then do all the cooking now. I left school age 14 and worked in a factory. I just liked this. I was later caught up to work as a nursing auxiliary. I had been a member of St John's ambulance in Wellingborough. After six weeks training at Northampton General Hospital I returned to Icebrook Hospital. I was later posted to a convalescent home at Wink Hill Staffordshire. I had to go to North Staph's rehabilitation to learn how to help dress the disabled and treat the army, treat army boys from all over the place. I actually made a date with one of the boys. I was nursing. I wondered why he didn't turn up. I later learned the reason was when a young man who later became my husband Joe had worn this young man off. He told him how he planned to marry me. Joe was discharged but returned to see me. Used to stay in the village. One night I asked the night nurse to leave the back door a lot but she must have forgotten and locked it. Joe started to throw stones up what he thought was her window. It was in fact the matron's window. I blushed like anything when I heard her complaining the following morning what a bad storm there must have been in the night. I was on leave when Wellingborough was brought dropped. It was bombed. One bomb dropped near All Saints Junior School. Another was dropped near the Crown and Anchor and another near the police station in Midland Road. I was working at Iceberg Hospital then. I dropped rice pudding that I was feeding someone with all over the place. I was really scared. We heard the bands when Coventry was being bombed. The bomber planes flew over Wellingborough, the Skyley Turp. We had to carry babies one in each arm down concrete steps. All the babies from Iceberg were taken to St Mary's Hospital at Ketrim. I was scared of dropping the baby so I decided to carry only one baby at a time. When the All-clear siren was sounded we came up again. I married Joe at All Saints Church Wellingborough. The war had finished by then. I was still at Stoke. Everyone was joyous. The war went to, we went to was packed. I remember listening to records like I'll be with you in apple blossom time and strings of pearls. Of course I were in a war in nurses uniform which included black stockings. We kept a pair in our adult dormitory for any of us to use. I got on really well with the other girls. We just supported each other. We worked from eight in the morning until five at night with two and a half days off. Three nurses were lucky in that we had tins of fruit from South Africa. We also ate rice pudding every day. I soon got fed up with rice pudding though. If we were off on Sundays we'd take the injured men to the morning service in the private church. I think it was owned by a Lord Rothschild. I borrowed a wedding dress from a colleague. My dad bought a chocolate wedding cape for me whilst matron made a two-tier ice cape. As was the tradition I saved one. Alan was born on March 14th following year. I was 25 and Jo was 29. We couldn't get a council house. We lived with my parents. Alan was almost two before we got an orlet house. It was lovely of course to have a house of our own but it was so very cold. So we sorted our extra heat in ourselves. Jo had bronchitis every year. Jo was by now working at Quicks at Wooliston. He used to do the stunts on golf shoes. I remember that they're all colours and really bright. And of good quality. When Jo lived in Stokey, he worked in the pottery industry making plates. His job was to take all the roughness off the plates and then they would be ready for glazing. He always said how much he liked this job. However he chose Wellington to live because he felt that our town was a lovely market town and I felt the same then. So much has changed over the years with many buildings poured down in orders and modernise. I remember going to the Regal Picture House in the market square. That was poured down in order to make way for the supermarket bryllies I think. Then there was the lyrics in Middle and Road as well as pictures. There would also be concerts on a Sunday which we sometimes went to. Joe Lightboxing and Football. He always followed his hometown of Portvale. After Alan was born I worked at home. I made runners and car mats for a small businessman. He went on to employ three of the machinists. It was better pay but not as good as going out to work. I returned to I's book Wellingboro when Alan was older. I mostly worked on the geriatric wards until I retired. We had a reasonable bus service which we've run by United Counties. We had our first television in 1953 so that we could watch the coronation. I think we were the first in the street to have a telly. All the kids from our street watched with us. All of them waving. Waving Union jacks. I made them more sandwiches. Of course I also remember the funeral of King George. Prior to this day everyone more black then. Everyone was shocked the day Edward abdicated the throne. Alan went to Corlin Road Infant School and then on to John Lee. It was such a shame when it was poured down. We used to like coronavals which were then held at Bassick's Park. We'd all dance around the bandstand. Later in the evening everyone followed the band down to Wellingboro station. I really loved the sight smell in fact everything about steam trains. We all used to go to Peterborough and sit on the on the bank near the station and then watch the trains come in and go in. Our sons would be taking the numbers of the trains. We always used to take a packed lunch. At the time Alan and his and his friends used to bite somewhere near Northampton. If they were late Joe and I would go to meet them and then bring them and their bikes home in our car. I live in a lovely flat in Shaspry house. Joe and I moved here in 1986. Joe loved it. It's really quiet without Joe. He died in 2002 without the without the saddest day of my life. I'm 91 now and happy living here. The other tenants are so good I'm willing to help at any time. We have a warden who works part-time to help us. When she is not there we have an on-call system to help in an emergency memory for Alan. In the days before emotion came into the market there would be December. We had an outside toilet. Every year during the winter the water would be turned off. I would have been about five years of age. I found this tin which I thought contained water and I peed in this for a few weeks. Dad, unaware of my activities, painted this novel mixture onto the toilet walls. It took some time to discover the reason for this smell. My grandad Ken Wales worked in the shoe industry. The factory was on Doddington Road where the car bar now is. My grandad bought me a plastic boat which I loved. He used to have a lotman in book street east which is where saxway's factory used to be. That is the end of all his story. Thank you Oillie. My next contributor is Margaret Tyerbuck, born in 1920. Dad was a farmer. Bradley's farm was at Waldenfield near Sudbury's suffered. My mum had been in this district nurse before she married. Mum was born in 1884. She was one of 14 and she had a twin sister. Father was born in 1882. He owned a small holding at Sudbury. He served in the First World War but he didn't talk about it. I remember however finding a postcard that he must have sent to mum. It had a picture of a nurse saying "I'm very weak. Can I lean on you please?" nurse. I had an older brother and a younger brother. I went to the council school at Sudbury. I left school at the age of 14. Mum died four days after my 14th birthday. Upon leaving school I helped dad on the farm. Local people were employed to help us. When I was about 17 the daughter of the gatekeeper who lived next door asked me if I was interested in a job of a kitchen maid at a big house which was a few miles away. I found it to be hard work. We had to be in the kitchen at 6.30 a.m. I did the scrubbing of the kitchen floors and the work tops. We seldom saw the actual family. I had half a day a week and one Sunday in a month off. I used to cycle home which was 10 miles away every week. Of course we used to cycle everywhere. We only used to have two hours off in the afternoon and then we would be back in the kitchen again. There would be shooting parties etc to cater for. We used to climb into our beds exhausted by about 10 o'clock. We didn't have bedrooms but instead individual cubicles in a big room. I got on well with the rest of the staff. I would say that programs we watch on the television are glamorised more than what life was really like for people were in service then. I had two or three similar jobs. When more broke out I volunteered for munitions. I finished up at Hatfield Aircraft Factory. Rare or since on inspections it was my job to inspect the riveting. I also proofloaded which meant examining cables which had a link at the end. I was belitted at Watford. We were lucky in that we only have one bomb which landed on us. Nere us. I was at the same same job until I got married. Was it and was introduced to my boyfriend William Lawrence by his cousin who worked at the same factory as me. He had served in the desert and he used to say I had to have sand with everything. We married May 22nd 1948 in Boxford, Suffolk near where my father and brother lived. I hired my wedding dress. I was lucky to have a cake as my dad's sister, Rana Bakery. We had three sons born in 1948, 51 and 58. When my sons were at school I was employed as a classroom assistant at Christchurch School London. I was either doing playground duty or taking the little milk, bottles of milk around every classroom. I used to love that job. I live with my oldest son and his wife in Lawrence now. One son lives in London, the other in Trozbee and now left in it squares for blankets. I love to do crosswords and puzzles. I'm going on holiday with my son next week. The next contribution comes from Jim born in 1920. I met Jim at Burton Latimer Library. I was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humour and it was a lovely place to be at Burton Library and Silly's. So, Jim 1920. My mother Dorothy May Carter was born in Chalfont St Giles, Buckinghamshire in 1884. My father James Form was born in 1884. Mum met dad when she visited her relatives in London. Dad worked as a glazier. I believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man. But to avoid a brief spelling prison he joined the army. He wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived. But the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead. When he left the army he was kept in the army reserve. Dad then got taken on by the Metropolitan Railway at Baker Street. This was the first underground wayway in the world. His job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting. He continued with this job until Germany declared war. Dad later told me that he was in France in 48 hours. It was at Morns in Belgium. There were hundreds of men to begin with. This was the first time that my dad had had had had to fire a rifle to kill. The battle continued for three days. A lot of men were lost. Orders were given to retreat. They retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of Paris. A French general realised that the leplanc of Germany was weak. So he commandeered all the taxes in Paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the Germans from advancing. Germans French and British had started to dig their own trenches. There were many casualties. Mr Churchill thought of a plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the Germans. Battle-hardened troops were put into boats and steamships. The men were told to march up and down the beach. They were told to fire between the legs of the enemy, not directly at them. However, this proved futile. The men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing they wore was insufficient. Sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed. After the war, dad returned to the metropolitan way away. Everyone was so poor then women were singing the streets. A lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river. The organ grinder would be given out a tune. Ramsay MacDonald became the first labour prime minister but after 18 months he resigned. Child payments were later cut from one chilling in the sixments to one chilling on wheat. Adult payments were also reduced. They followed the Jarrow marches. They had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from Jarrow to London. The Jarrow march was not backed by a political party that was formed by all classes of people. All people wanted to do was to work but there was no work available. Poor people were stigmatised then just as they are stigmatised now. There were soup kitchens in the schools. You could smell the soup being caught. We lived in a small property, the rent went seven chillins a week. Dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army. The pawning of this suit was our rent money. Mum would pawn the suit on Mandy for seven chillins then get the suit back on Friday. Mum and Dad would go to the pub for a drink on Saturdays. Beer would be four pence a pint. The following Mandy would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again. The queue was always long. Everyone was poor then. Mum and Dad were good parents in spite of the poverty they faced. They then followed the Spanish flu. It was said that more people died from the flu than did in the Great War. Mum and Dad lost twins aged three to this flu. I had short trousers and jumpers but no underwear. Rickets and tuberculosis were rife. There was no medical help for these conditions really. Apart from being sent to open air hospitals, I have an older sister called Dorothy and a younger sister called Margaret. My younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever. She was 17. Funals were paid for by the month. You could be buried for eight pounds. When the Nash assistance came in it was 28 pounds to pay for a coffee. Many people were buried in poor scrapes then. I used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket. I used to use the lamppost as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived. I went to bridge school and W10. I'd walk to school. I loved to read when I was at school. In fact I learned to read by reading the Bible. I stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage. Children who weren't as confident as me would be given the cane. A grown man given a child the grain. If I pulled my hand back then I'd get another stroke. I had an eyes head mistress who was very good. She would just slap me. You started at standard boy but wouldn't move to the next until you were proficient at level one. Special need schools didn't exist then. There were 43 children in my class. Boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls did cooking and he'll work. I had to be able to read the ruler. If my work reached the required standard then I'd get a stamp on my card. A lot of children left school without being able to read or write. I met a young girl at Harrow on the Hillways recently. She was aged about 23 or 24. She told me that she couldn't read. I don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so I had gave her some money. It was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgraced now. Teaching has changed so much from when I was a child I learned by rote. I also think going to what silent movies helped me to read. Remember how there was a bubble with the words in it on the screen. I could read well by the time I was aged seven. I remembered Cliff, Hannah and Walter Millie, Calburn, Western films as well as Charlie Chaplin. All his movements were to mine but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos. They really made me laugh. When we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard. The only book we had in our house when I was a boy was the Bible and a book on military law. That could remember everything he read in this book. He could read but he couldn't spell. Before my mum married dad she was living in a tide cottage with her family. A father was a farm labourer. Mum told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbours. Mum used to help out there so she learned sign language. Our family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s. It was a Canadian model which was shipped to England. There wasn't a brick on this house. It had four bedrooms and I shared a bed with my brother until I was older. I think that they were lucky to live in. I think we were lucky to live in a nice home. We had a separate bathroom and toilet. There was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden. We lived at number one Wembley which was by the River Brent. It's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us. He paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege. We also had 40 units of free electricity every week. However a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money. Our lives were different then. The green grocery ban visited the street weekly. The butcher would sell all his meat late on Saturday at a greatly reduced price. Mum used to buy tea, bone and beef. We'd have a Sunday rose called me on Monday then on Tuesday. Mum would make us sure everything including onions would go into the park. It smelled lovely. The butcher would deliver a block of ice. Blocks of ice regularly. These blocks would be delivered wrapped in sackings to keep the ice cold. A van came around the street street every week selling car bollocks substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses. The Rag and Bow man called around every day. Wives used to love going out and finding a bargain whenever the Rag and Bow man called. However visits were later reduced to once a week, one a week, when new regulations were introduced. The milkman would come around with his pony every day. There would be a big contains on the back of his trolley where the milk was kept. Women would take out their measuring jugs to fetch the milk. Their milk from him. Another my earlier memories is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this whole car. It had solid rubber tyres. The boys must have spent ages trying to make it road worthy. Another funny memory I have is of private bus companies racing to get to collect their passengers before the bus companies got there. This practice came to the end after the London Transport Company was formed. I left school at 14 and went into the engineering business. I worked for Wavers Engineering. Me never, me never, rode Wilston. I didn't like this job so I left after about four months. I then got a job at BAEA Wood, Wood, Wood, Wood, Sovereign, Pencil Company. This firm processed wood from Africa. Pencils have different woods. Wood is put into the solutions then into gas ovens. Wood was delivered by lorries. It was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines. The heat was turned on for 34 hours. Afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before being before being taken to the world's sovereign factory for pencil making. I was employed there for about two years. The next contribution comes from Jim born in 1920. I met Jim at Burton Latimer Library. I was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humour. It was a lovely place to be at Burton Library and silly as so Jim 1920. My mother Dorothy May Carter was born in Chalfont St Giles Buckinghamshire in 1884. My father James Form was born in 1884. Mum met Dad when she visited her relatives in London. Dad worked as a glazier. I believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he joined the army. He wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived. But the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead. When he left the army he was kept in the army reserve. Dad then got taken on by the Metropolitan Railway at Baker Street. This was the first underground wayway in the world. His job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting. He continued with this job until Germany declare war. Dad later told me that he was in France in 48 hours. It was at Monson Belgium. There were hundreds of men to begin with. This was the first time that my dad had had had to fire a rifle to kill. The battle continued for three days. A lot of men were lost. Orders were given to retreat. They retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of Paris. A French general realized that the left plan for Germany was weak. So he commandeered all the taxes in Paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the Germans from advancing. Germans French and Grichards started to dig their own trenches. There were many casualties. Mr Churchill thought of other plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the Germans. Battle hardened troops were put into boats and steam ships. The men were told to march up and down the beach. They were told to fire between the legs of the enemy, not directly at them. However, this proved futile. The men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing their war was insufficient. Sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed. After the war, they returned to the metropolitan way away. Everyone was so poor then women were seeing the streets. A lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river. The Orgum grinder would be given out of tune. Ramsay MacDonald became the first labour prime minister but after 18 months he resigned. Child payments were later cut from one chilling in six months to one chilling on wheat. Adult payments were also reduced. They followed the Jarrow Marches. They had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from Jarrow to London. Jarrow March was not that by a political party that was formed by all classes of people. All people wanted to do was to work but there was no work available. Poor people were stigmatised then just as they are stigmatised now. There were soup kitchens in the schools. You could smell the soup being caught. We lived in a small property, we went with seven shillings a week. Dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army. The pawning of this suit was our rent money. Mum would pawn the suit on men, give you seven shillings, then get the soup back on Friday. Mum and dapple go to the pub for a drink on Saturdays. Beer would be four pence a pint. The following money would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again. The queue was always long. Everyone was poor then. Mum and dapple good parents in spite of the poverty they faced. They then followed the Spanish flu. It was said that more people died from the flu than dead in the Great War. Mum and Dad lost twins aged three to this flu. I had short trousers and jumpers but no underwear. Ricketts and tuberculosis were arrived. There was no medical help for these conditions really. Apart from being sent to open air hospitals, I have an older sister called Dorothy and a younger sister called Margaret. My younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever. She was 17. Funals were paid for by the month. It could be buried for eight pounds. When the Nash assistance came in, it was 28 pounds to pay for a coffee. Many people were buried in porpoise graves then. I used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket. I used to use the lamp post as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived. I went to Bridge School and W-10. I walked to school. I loved to read when I was at school. In fact, I learnt to read by reading the Bible. I stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage. Children who weren't as confident as me would be given the cane. A grown man given a child the grain. If I pulled my hand back then I'd get another stroke. I had an eyesight. I had mischieced who was very good. She would just slap me. You started at Stan de Boum but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one. Special need schools didn't exist then. There were 43 children in my class. Boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls didn't cook in any other work. I had to be able to read the ruler. If my work reached the required standard then I'd be a I'd get a stamp on my card. A lot of children left school without being able to read or write. I met a young girl at Harrow on the Hillways recently. She was aged about 23 or 24. She told me that she couldn't read. I don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so I had gave her some money. It was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgraced now. Teaching has changed so much from when I was a child I learned by rote. I also think going to what silent movies helped me to read. Remember how there was a bubble with words in it on the screen. I could read well by the time I was aged seven. I remembered Cliff, Hannah and Walter Millie, Calbion, Calbion, Western films as well as Charlie Chapman. All his movements were to mine but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos. They really made me laugh. When we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard. The only book we had in our house when I was a boy was the Bible and a book on military law. That could remember everything he read in this book. It could read but he couldn't spell. The former mum married dad she was living in a tight cottage with her family. Her father was a farm laborer. Mum told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbours mum used to help out there so she learned sign language. Our family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s. It was a Canadian model which was shipped to England. There wasn't a brick on this house. It had four bedrooms and I shared a bed with my brother until I was older. I think that they were lucky to live in. I think we were lucky to live in a nice home. We had a separate bathroom and toilet. There was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden. We lived at number number one Wembley which was by the river Brent. It's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us. He paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege. We also had 40 units of free electricity every week. However a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money. Our lives were different then. The green grocery van visited the street weekly. The butcher would sell all his meat late on Saturday at a greatly reduced price. Mum used to buy a tea bough and a beef. We'd have a Sunday rose called me on Monday then on Tuesday. Mum would make us sure everything including onions would go into the park. It smelled lovely. The butcher would deliver a block of ice. Blocks of ice regularly. These blocks would be delivered wrapped in suckings to keep the ice cold. A van came around the street street every week selling car/bolic substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses. The rag and bow man called around every day. Wives used to love going out and finding a bargain when they're with the rag and bow man called. Over visits were later reduced to once a week when new regulations were introduced. The milkman would come around with his pony every day. There would be a big contains on the back of his trolley where the milk was kept. Women would take out their measuring drugs to fetch the milk from him. Another my earlier name is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this old car. It had solid rubber tyres. The boys must have spent ages trying to make it roworthy. Another funny memory I have is of private bus companies racing to get to collect their passengers before the bus company got there. This practice came to the end after the London transport company was formed. I left school at 14 and went into the engineering business. I worked for Wavers engineering, Minerva, Road Wilston. I didn't like this job so I left after about four months. I then got a job at BAEA Wood, Royal, Wood, Royal Sovereign, Pencil Company. This firm processed wood from Africa. Pencils have different boards. Wood is put into the solution standing to gas and ovens. Wood was delivered by lorries. It was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines. The heat was turned on for 34 hours. Afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before being taken to the world of factory for pencil making. I was employed there for about two years. At the start of the second world war I had to go for a medical checkup at Acton drill hall. I recall that this was near iron mongrel and oil shots. The result of this was me getting a letter to post in the post to go to a private practice in windpull street. I was ushered in to see this doctor. He even had his own x-ray machine. I was given another physical examination. I wasn't up to service not even being a bevan boy. I then worked for Victoria Machine Talk Company indoor that not acton. I had been doing vertical drilling before. My job was now to do drill castings making vertical drills for a milli machines. It was a family firm. I was there for about 32 years. I was a maid redundant and was without a job for about two months. My son in law helped me to get a job at General Motors Kingsbury. I was then forced to look around for another job and was lucky enough to find a job working at the Heinzbury factory. It was a good firm to work for as they had a canteen which opened from 6.30 a.m. until 10 a.m. then opened again from 12 until 2, then 5 until 6.30 p.m. It was a factory that was open all day and night. The factory was next to the Grand Union Canal. In the early days the boats even transported live turtles to make turtle soup. In the same factory were women who were putting olives into jars. The women were not allowed to talk. They had huge barrels of vinegar also brought in on barges. The factory also had its barges bringing in things like baked beans. They had about six lines of beans from small to large. I remember that there were half a pound of beans we'd pork about on the top. Mum used to buy a tin for me. I recall how they used to have little lines running above where we worked. All the tins would be moving along at these lines. Mr Heinz, who was a quaker, was a very generous man and had started his business in America growing horseradish, etc. And he would sell his produce on the markets. He must have done very well doing this. In 1920 he came to London on a business trip. The businessmen he met bought up all his stock. The factory had a doctrine, five nurses to help to look after everyone. There used to be five tea rooms. If you started work early then you would be given a free breakfast. It would be very handy for single people being able to get their meals in the factory canteen. Every Christmas people would be given a gift. Every five years you were given a booklet with things that you could choose as a gift. It proved very beautiful for young people who were looking at setting up home and getting married. I married Mrs Doreen Gower at Williston Register Office in 1947. She had three boys. I met her when she was working as a captain and lay operator at the Victoria Talk Company. She had been living in Tottenham until she got bombed out. We had three daughters and a son. Our first child was born in 1947. She now lives in Buschineer Watford. Our second daughter was born in 1949. She now lives in Pinnah. Our next daughter was born in December 1951. We then had a son born December 31st 1955. He lives in Burton Latimer. I have been living in Burton Latimer since 1993. I have 10 grandchildren. My family generally come up to visit me every three or four months. I was in hospital in October for a few weeks. When I was discharged I stayed with my daughter in Buschineer for a while. My wife died a day after Boxing Day 1985 which was the year that I retired. She died following a heart attack. I moved to Burton Latimer when London broke two dangers to remain. We had been burgled twice and two house bricks had been thrown through the windows. I had an elder brother who lived in her house. Her wife had died. I would go and visit him and neither moved in with me. I love that and it feels free from crime. We know muggings are stealing of cars. I still love trees and love to visit the library. So do I Jim. A really lovely and welcoming place. I live from day to day now. I love to talk to older people who live there. I would say that there are an awful lot of transient people living here. I met a bloke a few years ago who told me how he had a distinguished conduct medal. He said how his last operation was to free prisoners on before on the borders of Poland in studying. When they had polished the German guards off it was tea time. He said to them isn't it about time you went home. This man drunks man's pale in brown ale which made me decide that I would like to sit next to him. We belong to the RAC club. I think that they built five apartments there. That's the end of Jim's story but another really obviously valuable one. A brilliant sense of humour when I breathe and silly. So Jim 1920. Mr Harry Bailey in 1918 the following story written by Mr Bailey was given to me by his daughter. One of my earliest memories I have is at the age of four I was playing in the high street at the earth ember by hometown when a soldier came walking up the street. He surprised me by saying hello young Bailey. He took me to my own house for as you may have guessed by now. He was my father. From the age of four I spent a happy time. I had them my brothers, children, friends, sisters, Mabel and Ellen. They were four below me and four above. I started school at the age of five and remember showing off. But my mother left me with the headmistress and Mrs Hardett. Apart from us being poor we were a very happy family. My father did like to have a glass of beer but not until we were well shot and fed did he have one. My days at the senior school were happy except for one school master. My pals at this time were Sammy Whiteman cousin, Ernie Bailey cousin, Ernie Fusspuster cousin, Tommy Overton, Fred Bell, Bull and Bert Partridge. But I had lots of nice pals in those days. I could name at least a score but they were the main ones. Sammy was a dad. Devlin got this into a lot of trouble but we seemed to thrive on it. One day he came into school. His mother's in Oakmill when asked I asked how it had got there. He said his mother threw the ball at him because she had broken her copper stick on him. I think that he deserved all he got for he used to give his mother a hell of a life. She locked him in his bedroom on one of our hospital parade days and he hung out of the window with a sheet around his waist because the window was parallel with the road. The parade trap traveled on. At the age of 10 I sold papers and delivered them for which I got three and six per week. On Saturday nights I sold football papers and got two pets, two pence perters and I used to sell about eight inters and so I used to give my mother about five shins each week or told but I used to have a lot of the pictures. I used to buy myself a pair of socks about every two weeks. I was able with socks and used to get a good pair for a shilling. My sisters never seemed to have any money when it was time for pictures and I used to treat them often. Maybe they don't remember this. I bought tap fruit from Johnny Bird's. That shop is in our high street. Fred worked a bit of a stone horse, Victoria's Street, Mabel Xpress works now the box factory. At the age of 14 I started to work at Bay's Victoria's Street. I used to have to start work at six in the morning so I would not be late. I used to have a good wash at night and put my color and tie back on to go to bed. If that only happened until the dad found out then the problem was solved by him letting me wear one of his mufflers. At 14 I got my foot trapped in the left and had about 14 weeks on compensation at 12 and 6 a week. It turned six better off than working but the pain was worth all that. The big donor had to be removed and nurse Stanley who was a nurse with Dr. Gibbs. I started cutting it off with scissors but this was more than I could stand so I had it off by gas. The doctor said I would not want anything that night but I never felt more hungry and ate half a loaf. When I recovered from my injury I went to work at the expense and when they gave me a rise I had two weeks money and then the sack. It was the only time I would ever have a second in my work in life. Within a day I went to work in Rushton and that firm went bankrupt. I was never interested in girls at the time. We used to have lots of fun over at Findon the whole gang of us but after a time we turned to Rushton. It was about this time that I met you. When I met you I thought you were destined for me. Your eyes used to fascinate me. You used to stare at me on purpose. They were grand eyes and to hide my embarrassment I used to say don't stare at me in our lives. We used to go to the car pool but many times I would take you home after you had me still last bus. I did not care as though something about you that seemed perfect. On September the 1st 1934 a day I shall never forget we were married by the Reverend Bookman at St Peter's Church Rushton. Glancing out of the corner my eyes saw you walking down the aisle on the arm of your late father. You were dressed in a lovely pink gown and hat white gloves up to the elbow. You were all that I had pictured and more to me with the most wonderful thing that I had ever happened to me. A trained at Preston and my first posting was at Lake Vernon, North Wales. Their nearest town was 26 miles away but it was lovely there. So peaceful and beautiful. The hill seemed to touch the sky and the lake was magnificent but hotel on the hill had all sorts of people and I took the well-known man trout fishing on the lake. He gave me half a dozen trout and fifty fakes and we enjoyed a separate act night. Then the rate of his there and we soon walked to know the shepherds and the villagers about a mile away a farmhouse up the lake so I used to sell a sense of butter and we lived like what lords for a while. Josephine Hillamy Kenworthy was the daughter of this man and was 12 years old. She was a decent sort of kid and used to treat us as her friends. When we went away they gave us fifty-five feet and a letter with the rest of the House of Lords on Wishner's goodbye as they had to hurry back to London. I moved from there to our depot at Penn's arne and was there for about two weeks then to Cleberry Mortimer and while I was there Gloria was born. I got ten days compassionately. You were in the front room when I arrived home. You hadn't had an easy time. Dr Barry Salters' prams so you were fixed up okay by the time I went back. Soon after my return to North Wales I was moved to Maltins. If other was a place made for pigs that's the place it was the worst billet I had in four years and four months. I stayed there for a month then moved to Mount Cap where I was a campriner on a bike. I'm hoping that something else should be home for God. Just you and I and the three children at this as this September night ends and the darkness falls are closed with love. Anion. Some of our names included Marbaric, E.B.E.T. correspondent, Mrs Maine, named Mrs Bollard. Mr Wheatley who had two daughters and a son. We lived in the same house until I was 14. Went to find an infiscule which is now the junior school then onto Wellingborough Road which later became a secondary school. I remember that the head past was a captain certain. I also remember dancing around the Maypole and the May Queen being crowned. I went to Sunday school at What in Now Dr Spencer's House and the boys went to the boys school. We sometimes had to go to church from Sunday school. When I think about how many shots we used to have there was a big change. There was Mr Cox's general store on the corner where the health center is. Across the road in the square there was a water pump and two massive stones beside it. Everyone who had horses etc used to use it. Miss York the blacksmith as well as Mr Dawson had premises in Wall Street. I remember Mr Dawson beating the anvil and singing at the top of his voice. He was really pleasant. My parents had a small hold in during the war and I worked for my dad in Flaps to Road. He kept all manner of things including pigs, calves, hens, rabbits, dogs and cats. In those days people were registered with us for eggs. The police called every month to ensure everything was legitimate. I enjoyed doing this work. There were two stone cottages and chamberlings lived in one. Where Halifax is now was a sweet shop owned by Mr Gallop. He was a really big man. He sold bottle sweets with every sort and chocolate and I remember him as being really nice. I remember the houses in his forcrescent being built. Mainly many of them by Marryx whilst Bert Chard's father built some. She ended that story. We move on to Miss Wilson. I was born here in 1918 and went to Molso Infant School then the girls junior school and then back to Molso School. I had one brother and one sister. My dad worked as a shoe operative at the co-op which was then at the bottom of Obvious Road. We always respected our parents and I feel that we had good parents. We had to go to Sunday school and I was a Sunday school teacher later on. We always had a week away at the seaside every year. After church and during my teenage years a group of us would walk to find in station. A few trains would stop there at that time. I had happy days at Sunday school and a treat would be a parade around finding. After a day of sports in station road. The old prize brass band played in the evenings and Mr Remington was the conductor. My time in the entertainment society started in the junior dancing group and I belonged to this for a number of years. Again these were very happy times. Mum stayed at home to care for us and this was the usual thing to be doing those days. Very few women went out to work. During the war I was a member of the Women's Land RB and I used to be up and at work by 6.30 and during harvest time. We would be working until late in the evening. I enjoyed the land army and I felt I was doing my bit for the country. We used to keep hands to supplement our living. When war was declared we carried gas masks to Sunday school and they were kept in a cardboard square box. I remember planes going over when commentary was bombed. Finding entertainment church Sunday school was resumed after the war to try and build things up again. Hurst Cutswood Band used to play down at the Star Hall every Thursday night. We used to play badminton in the Star Hall. We used to go to pictures in Wellingbron and Saturday night buses ran much later in those days. I feel that payments were much tighter in those days and litter is much more of a problem now. It is sad to see shops closing here. Traffic is heavier now and I feel that we could really do with a bypass. I would far rather keep our town as it is than build houses on our outskirts. I think that we have a good variety of things happening including over 60s. Darby and Joan, Brownies, Rainbow's, Tindy and Entertainment Society, Rumblers, Townwell Women's Guild, Women's Institute, Quicket Club, Football Club, Darts teams, British Legion, Tennis Club, Keep Fit, Yoga, Line Dancing, Pilates and St John Williams. The next person I spoke to was Kit Joyce, born actually no. The following work contributor was Roma Pierce, born 1918. Father Conrad Renee, mother Elizabeth, Olivia, both of high wickering. Father worked as a foreman for a furniture maker whilst my mother worked as a pushchair worker making the seats. My grandfather used to make Windsor chairs. He would engrave his initials on the bottom of the chair. My uncle was a head gardener for Benjamin Disraeli. I also had a sister-in-law who was a seamstress dressmaker for a duchess. I had two cousins who worked on the Windsor Castle estate. I also had a sister who lived until she was under until she was a hundredthee. I attended Priory School Road Board School. This was an elementary school which was run by professional people like doctors, nurses and professors. I didn't like school as I was terribly shy. I worked on a press in the laundry factory having left school at the age of 14. However, when more broke out, our work there changed dramatically. The government replaced and then stored away all the laundry machinery and replaced it with machinery for making telephone cords and cables for the Navy, Army and RAF. I carried out this work for six years. You weren't allowed to give noges and leave unless you were ill or having a baby. After the end of the war, the government brought back all of the machines. Of course, the original people were still there, but I didn't stay. I met a boy when I was age 17. He was living with his mother who I just got separated from her husband. She moved to the seaside, so of course a son. My boyfriend moved with her. We had corresponded for a couple of years. He then wrote to me and told me that he had fallen in love with another girl. This was before the war. When more broke out, he joined the RAF and was initially stationed at high-wickham. I met Ronald Pierce and after six months we married in 1937. He was from Tuckley and then there, Gerald's Cross. He was a supervisor for G.I furniture. G.I plan furniture. He had been in the parachute regiment in France during the war and was wooded in the temple. It was a serious injury, of course. The surgeon who carried out the operation told my husband some time later that he had operated on. Ten other men were similar head injuries, but that my husband was the only one who had survived. As it was, he was still affected by this injury but managed to live a successful life. He was a devout Christian. The surgeon hadn't expected him to live for more than three or four years. He studied his Bible and went preaching and was able to use his brain. It affected him in his attitude. It made him strict. We used to move about every seven years and ended up in Stoney Stratford. I worked as a C.A.B. advisor there and I loved it. At the age of 50, I began to work in a Christian bookshop. I loved books, so this was the perfect job for me. Unfortunately, the bookshop was bought out by another company. I was kept on and was in charge of ordering books and this gave me confidence. My husband died ten years ago from a very rare disease. We have one girl and two boys. Two, Ian is a traveling salesman for a dog charity. He had previously worked for a sales charity, helping widows of men who had drowned at sea. He now travels all over the country. Our other son owns a watch repair shop. This is in Milton Keynes. We have seven grandchildren. Sylvia has three children. While Simon has two children, he is married to a Filipino lady. Ian is married to a Blackthick African and they have two children. But, childs, I was born in Millrö and Wallenberg in 1911. My dad was a builder of my mother, a housewife. We moved to find him in 1921 and we lived in Wallenberg Road where buds and blooms are now. I learnt the apprenticeship skills of building on my pay was five shillings for the first two years of my apprenticeship. I then spent two years as an improver and my pay increased by two shillings. I left school at 14 and qualified when I was 20. I had to pay for my own clothes with the money I earned. I went to Wallenberg College three nights a week after working during the day and studied building quantities, general building and mass. We had a ganger builders in Wallenberg Road on land where Minishu factory had stood. The factory was burnt down when I was about 17. We were responsible for building a number of properties including an avenue road, council yard, tentalain, a six garage, houses near the Warman Memorial, Gautre and Helgrange farm in Timmullso, work on lime tree end, maintenance work on finding hall, shops for good men's, front of the co-op, shop for Mrs Arne and Aller Road, in foot school in 1937 for 10,000 pounds, parlour houses in Israel Crescent, Hawthorne Road, bungalows in Uruv and air raid shelters in Mott Road. There used to be six butchers here and I think that Shelton's had two butchers. They owned a slaughterhouse in Regent Street. I recall that Starmley and the Postman lived at lime tree end. I think that they had bought find and haul as an ecological parcels retreat. It stood empty and deteriorating for years and Grange farm. War time memories. I remember making blackout frames when Chamberlain declared war September 1939. We used packing case lining and chambering and we put heavy line curtains at the windows. We used to have air raid wardens walking around telling you off if you spoke to cigarette in the street. I was first stationed at Inverness Lord Loved's Castle and was in the Royal Engineers. I worked at Liverpool Street, Doc, directing the cargo as to where it should go. This was in our training days. I remember June the 8th, day two on the landing of the infantry craft from the New Haven where we were stationed waiting for the invasion at Armament Day as well. The Mulberry Harbor was we were forced to raid up to our next and onto the shore. We then had to walk for several kilometres through sets of tape where landed already been checked for bombs. When we eventually got to camp we had to make our own billets whilst our clothes dried on us. I was then in a party that went on to Rotterdam. We were at Brussels when 4,800 flying bombs were dropped and I dived when the billets were blasted. There was glass everywhere. Mayvis Collins, Dorta, put together all of the stories, much more on created a small book entitled Are We All A Little Blind to be shared in the hope of giving everyone an insight into Nann's remarkable life. Continuation with Harry. Harry was also the adapter at Mending Clocks and many a time their clock would strike in the front room, followed by a Westminster chime ringing out in the kitchen. He also repaired various electrical goods, toasters, vacuum cleaner, signs, etc. And he was always the first port of call for relations and neighbours before taking them to a shop. His only problem was he was unable to see the colour of the wires so it needed the help of a sighted person if the occasion arose. From the age of 10 he also taught Mayvis how to mend a fuse in an electric box so that if it blew at any time and he was not around to mend it, Nann would not have to sit in the cold as their house was heated by electricity. When she was older he was involved in whatever he was doing, carpentry, electrics, chair, cane etc. Thus she had a basic training in lots of practical skills which were to come in very useful in later life. Harry tried various treatments to restore his eyesight and in 1953 he underwent a cornea operation on his left eye which was a failure. In 1969 he had 17 days of injections trying a new drug to no avail. In 1972 he underwent a cataract operation after which he was involved nothing could be done as he had damaged corneas and had problems with the retina as well as the eye disease, intestinal keratitis, herisascapades. Whilst returning home from work one day Harry had to cross a very busy dual carriageway always having to wait for someone to take him across. On this occasion he was carrying a bunch of will okayings and on reaching the grass island in the middle of the dual carriageway the gentleman suddenly let go of his arm and disappeared. Harry knowing just how dangerous the road was remained where he was calling out for some assistance. A man then got older with arm asking if he was okay and Harry then relates to the man what had happened I didn't I hope we didn't think I needed to blunt these here holding out his bunch of willows. I think he must have seen his bus coming to which the man replied yes mate he did but he won't be going very far because I'm the driver. Having seen what had happened he had got out of his cab and went to Harry's aid. One Christmas having gone to the angel market islington to purchase a duck for dinner he climbed to the upper deck of the bus. Duck held in front of him to be confrided by a woman on the way down. Mummy Duck says he never mind your duck I'm trying to find something to stick up the arse of mine was her reply. On reaching the upper deck Harry found himself and duck entangled in a rather large Christmas tree which someone had positioned at the top of the stairs. Needless to say by the time he got home the duck was rather the worst for wear. Harry was always up for a joke and whilst at work one afternoon a faith he in a court at the workshop preaching that he could restore the sight of the men they refused to see him but instead instead sent down one of the chaps who did not have any eyes thus having a good laugh at the healers expense expanse married life. Nan married Mary James Bradley Harry and they moved into a grand floor flat 196 Lordship Lane a few doors along from the rest of her family. When expecting her first child Oryse in 1932 she applied to become a home worker. Home was duly checked out to see whether it was suitable for a machine and that is when she was alone the Harrison circular knitter. Conditions attached were that you had to earn at these five shillings a week and the middle of sex counter council would make it up to ten chillings you were sent six pounds a ball in the bag. The wall was in a skein which had then had to be waxed and wound on the bobbins. Free pair of socks returned at the end of the week received five pence but if any were not up to standard they were returned without payments. The toes were left open if you didn't manage to achieve your five shillings you were not paid later you then had to complete the socks. Payment then was ten feet per pair having then to earn ten shillings a week with the middle sex counter council all meant in another potentialings. Time taking to machine a pair of socks was an hour of open toes and half an hour and a half the clothes ones when the second world war began home workers were asked to get their own sock orders. War could still be obtained from Swiss cottage workshop and the middle sex counter council paid still still pay the augmentation. Harry had been seconded in 1937 to work at the initial tail company City Road repairing all their laundry baskets any obtained many orders from the colleagues working there and from then on now never had to work for Swiss cottage again. At the start of the war Nann and Iris were evacuated again in the hill Lincolnshire stand once again on the farm. I had been talking to a lorry driver in a cap and he was telling him he did the Peterborough running he would take them along with many others at that time as it was feared that London was in the front line for a bombing attack the circular machine was loaded on the back of a lorry along with Irish Spicycle they made the uncomfortable journey in the tab Lillian and daughter Sheila followed in another lorry arriving in Peterborough the driver dropped them at Aunt Anne's this this being Wednesday he told them he would come the next strategy to take them on to get in the hill in his own cars the lorry had to be returned to the yard and he had run out of time this he did. James Henry Bradley Harry born 18th of January 1907 at St Paul's Road St Pancras London later moving to Red Hill Street Regent's part London Harry was the oldest of five children in 1980 his mother contracted the flu as there was no one to look after them Harry along with Sister Dolly was sent to at the workhouse that leaves to near Watford for a month until their mother was able to look after them again he attended the church school until he was 11 years old one Friday his site deteriorated and by the Monday he was unable to see he was taken into hospital and smothered in mercury wrapped from head to foot in bandages and kept like this for four weeks the idea was to penetrate the blood system he came out of hospital in January and had no more schooling until he was 13 years old when he was then registered blind going first to breakknock school and later to Linda in large residential school until he was 16 having some extra instruction in basket weaving and chair came in his vision fluctuated enormously and at the beginning of 1923 was deep de certified this left him in limbo not enough not enough site to work in a sighted place and too much for the blind workshops however by the end of 1923 he was re certified and begun a four year basket making training course at the end of 1927 27 which he was again de certified so once again he was in limbo he managed to get a job as a basket worker instructor in Portsmouth this lasted for two years having to return to London and unable to obtain any work he decided enough was enough he then possessed perpested the authorities London County Council to let him work in the blind workshops they still refused to reinstate him so he stood outside county hall with his boots in tatters and a placard hung around his neck until they relented on the proviso that a doctor stated that he would eventually lose his site in 1930 he started work at Greenwich workshops he was then living in Camden town so it was quite a long journey during this year Harry met Nan a monthly dance held at Swiss cottage workshops in Kilburn they had previously known one another briefly at Brettnot school while while caught in they visited Harry's brother in hospital deciding to take Nan for a drink afterwards they entered a pub or so they thought Harry requested the drinks to which the man replied sorry mate no one will treat you to a pint here you're in the undertakers the pub's next door so much for making a good impression in 1931 he exchanged work exchange with a work colleague and went to work at Swiss cottage which was much nearer to home from 1937 to 47 he worked at the initial tower company and from 1947 to 53 return once again to Swiss cottage workshops the journey then became too much for him as his site and also his hearing was deteriorating quite rapidly so he then transferred to Tottenham Court road where he remained until he retired in 1974 in later life he became profoundly deaf which he found to be more of a problem than his blindness as it isolated him from many conversations which would have he would have previously made with people it continued working at home making baskets and chaircaining and repaired or replaced the seats on numerous chairs many from the house of lords and the house of commons many a famous bottom may well have graced his seats on one occasion a Rolls Royce was seen parked outside their council house the neighbors were really inquisitive the chauffeur haven't taken the chair for repair inside saw Nan at her machine on returning to the car he related what he had seen to lord we don't know when they returned to collect the chair both the chauffeur and lord went into the house where Nan demonstrated how to make a make a sock on the machine he then purchased a couple of pairs before leaving Nan had her wall sent them and continued working after six weeks with no bombs have been dropped she decided to return to London returning once again by lorry harry did not know they were returning so when they arrived home the front room was full of planks of wood which harry was going to use for some project or another nan being quite house power was not very impressed nan harry and iris remained at their ground floor flat in lordship lane and Anderson shelter was erected in the back garden which they shared with the people living upstairs they thought it was a little beneath their status to share and did not use the shelter so the people living next door with a rather large brood of children shared with Nan and her family however the shelter was so damp how he decided it would be better to sleep in the bathroom which was under the stairs he then made a board to go on top of the bath for Nan and iris to sleep on and he slept on the bathroom floor iris acquired roller skates for her birthday almost gail is skating up and down when she was asked to take nan to visit a friend she wants to go on her skates but Nan flatly refused saying she didn't want to have to run alongside in april first 1943 saw the birth of maybes and in november that year saw the start the ventricular for the blind organized by missadnies evans a home teacher for the middle sex association for the blind nan became a member the following is an excerpt from agnies evans biography one morning after a very naughty night noisy night i've set off to visit a young blind woman who had recently had a baby it was a strange feeling during these days that one might not find things as they should be these doors on the latch and a voice called come in when i knocked the mother was just finishing the baby's bath and drying her as she lay her on a towel on the table in the sunshine the health is to called what whilst i was there and told me that mrs bradley was an example which many sighted mothers could follow a very capable and independent couple whose two daughters were perfectly normal girls these are some of the stories of her life as a totally blind wife a mother bringing up two children coping with running her home and taking care also of husband a husband who was similarly disabled were ribbed into an almost inspirational inspirational degree to quote but one of dozens vote link she came into the show with what when she was an app when she announced that she had just finished taking her knitting machine to pieces to affect her repair this from a 97 year old blind since childhood and you imagine you imagine sometimes that we have had problems thank you mom you meant so much and gave so much pleasure to so many people and most particularly to me to have encountered you if only by way of a radio program was to become a rare privilege indeed which is spent love mbe but you represent a bb south bpc south and east of england the poem that follows was written for now on her 90th birthday by her friend ileen who went blind later in life i'm sure you'll agree it gives us all three to the thought happy birthday to you nahan who's never never seen the light but i have never heard a mom whatever's been her plight with her dancing and her happy face she's been god's gift to me i felt so sorry for myself one first i could not see i know of people in this world who have have the gift of sight but never lived that ever lift their eyes to scar as a blaze with light i have not known them very long but long enough to find a world of so full of happiness are we all a little blind perhaps we need to think about that one as both my parents my mum brenton may and my father james arper nisbet were both blind mum from birth dad was in both eyes and i think in his early 20s and their brilliant parents i've been particularly drawn to the stories of both nahan and as for the most story of we caused some arping a moment it's been such a rewarding piece of work length of uh a fancy walk walk i remain with nahan for a while i was now 12 when nahan was 8/12 she was sent to the above school the elkor residential school for the blind it consisted of two houses elkor house and gleniel house that had been 4 to 14 yards unriable students who each goodness get been wrote with their name on which remain with them throughout their stay the principal of the scores miss Margaret Rothwell by her sister Amy also worked there as a nurse many strict rules were applied no talking to one another only to teach his boots to be undone down to the last three i lit holes and girls that could see little had to wear paid glasses during less than so that they would not have an advantage over the total blind if any of these rules were clouded punishment would be given on their only free night without homework which was a Wednesday they would either have lines or for the poor girls unable to dress themselves properly they had to practice dressing over and over again Wednesday evening was also when the preacher came if boots were not tied properly in the morning they were confiscated for the day nahan by this time had discarded her leg irons and instead her legs were heavily bandaged she tended to walk her books up boots over on one side and so to compensate for this they made her wear boots on the wrong feet boots sent to be repaired given to anyone on return even if you had a noopey you probably would not see them again a 14 year old students then moved around the courthouse at the start of term all the girls were given a list of jobs to be undertaken undertaken before breakfast each morning and a bucket number jobs to be done included all the cleaning scrubbing of the stairs steps polishing etc now you was unable to bend was given the silver to clean daily on a bench in the small orchard outside during the cold weather the silver very often froze to the bench four girls were given the job of peeling potatoes and if any were rotten they used to throw them over the wall one time however the man who lived there collected them all up and took them to miss rockwell their punishment was to walk around the wall all day carrying a basket full of rock these rock potatoes every morning in addition to their tasks they had to run around the orchard calling out the number of luts they had done to the principal moege who lay in her bed with a window open at the end of the orchard garden was a large shed and a chicken comb and the caretaker obviously a caring man used to leave the window of the shed open for the girls so they were able to leave an upland now which they hadn't previously pilfered on from the orchard every time they passed the window on their compulsory run they were able to have a bite and replace it in the shed the other girls were able to see a little used to warn them when she was near the window breakfast was at eight so all jobs had to be completed by them breakfast was porridge and a slice of bread and butter nothing to drink dinner slow very basic work order and they also heard a sweet if anyone misbehaved they weren't without their sweet a couple of warts were given where they did their first drink of the day and they sat eight to a table with the wonger and having to act as waitress the rota being changed each week tea consisted of two slices of bread and butter and half cup of tea incidentally back in waffler had a permanent made weight and solely i think i leave this story here as both my parents my mum bender me and my father James opper and esper were both blind mum from birth dad losing both eyes in i think in his early 20s and their brilliant parents i've been particularly drawn to the stories of both nan and a husband whose story i will record some of in a moment it's been such a rewarding piece of work length of um that's him i remain with nan for a while who is now 12 when nan was eight twelve she was sent to the above school the alcort residential school for the blind it consisted of two houses elm courthouse and gleniel house the latter being four twelve to fourteen year olds unriable students for each goodness skipping rope with their name on which remain with them throughout their stay the principal of the school was Miss Margaret Rothwell and her sister Amy also work there as a nurse many street walls were applied no talking to one another i needed teachers boots to be undone down to the last three i lit holes and girls that could see little had to wear paid glasses during lessons so that they would not have an advantage over the totally blind if any of these rules were flouted punishment would be given on their only free night without homework which was a wednesday they would either have lines or for the poor girls unable to dress themselves properly they had to practice dressing over and over again wednesday evening was also when the preacher came if boots were not tied properly in the morning they were confiscated for the day nan by this time had discarded her leg eyes and instead her legs were heavily bandaged she tended to walk her books like boots over on one side and so to compensate for this they made her wear boots on the wrong feet boots sent to be repaired would give them to anyone on return even if you had a noopair you probably would not see them again but 14 year old students then moved around the courthouse at the start of term all the girls were given a list of jobs to be undertaken undertaken before breakfast each morning and a bucket number jobs to be done included all the cleaning the scrubbing of the stairs steps polishing etc nan were unable to bend was given the silvers clean daily on a bench in the small or chilled outside during the cold weather the silvers very often froze to the bench four girls were given the job with peeling potatoes if any were rotten they used to throw them over the wall one time however the man who lived there collected them all of them took them to miss rockwell their punishment was to walk round the hall all day carrying a basket full of rotten potatoes every morning in addition to that I also had to run around the orchard calling out the number of luts they had done to the principal muggy who lay in her bed with a window open at the end of the orchard garden was a large shed and a chicken coop and the caretaker obviously a carryman used to leave the window of the shed open for the girls so they were able to leave an upland now which they had to previously pilfered on from the orchard every time they passed the window on their compulsory run they were able to have a bite and replace it in the shed the other girls were were able to see a little used to warn them when she was near in the window breakfast was at eight so all jobs had to be completed by them breakfast was porridge and a slice of bread and butter nothing to drink dinner's though very basic work order and they also had a sweet if anyone misbehaved they went without their sweet a cup of water were given where their dinner their first drink of the day and they sat at a table with one go and having to act as waitress the rota being changed each week tea consisted of two slices of bread and butter and half a cup of tea incidentally maki waffle had a permanent made waiting solely on her i think i need this story here for now at the age of two nan fell downstairs where she received a substantial blow to her legs over the next two years her site deteriorated and by the time she was four if she was totally blind and crippled age five she started at Brecknock's go in York way is linton which had two separate units one for blind children near the full handicapped each had two classrooms and their own playground in 1911 Nansma died leaving lilyan to look after five girls an older brother and father a teacher at Nansford it would be not an impossible task for lilyan having to care for them and Nans so i recommended that Nans be sent away Nans was sent to high court hospital and from there to two others the names she could not recall she eventually ended up in Queens Mary throughout car short and sorry where she remained until 1916 the beds were then required for wounded soldiers coming back from the first world war during her stay in hospital she was kept in bed for the majority of the time not receiving any schooling as there was no one to teach her braille their diagnosis at that time was that she had TB of the bones and as as to and as rest was the cure that was what she got although i never ever actually confirmed you think it was still disease which is a form of arthritis in children usually triggered by some form of injury such as a severe knock when you're turning home with a nine on one leg in order to level her legs up a splimp with metal under the boots on the other Nann had to return to Breckknott's school to be taught braille and had to go into the beginners' class the following year having accomplished this she was sent to Angkor, West Central School for the Blind West Norwood 18 Goodings Road Holling Holling Halloway London was the gallery home the accommodation consisted of a scullery kitchen that's bedroom brother's bedroom this all on the ground floor upstairs the girl's bedroom in which there was one double bed and one single Lillian Elsie Amord shared the double whilst wing and Lillian had to single the remainder of the house was occupied by another family An Nann's arrival back home moored her to sleep with her friends the Nann sisters over the road so that Nann could have a bed bedding consists of sheets and an old railway ghost these they called out ididown with sleeves in cooking was done on the fire as the gas meter had been locked and they could not afford to pay the bill all allowed to put use for lighting the food was very basic the mainstay is being bred hopefully but joined on suddenly called me Tom Mandy then the bones stewed and would last until Thursday for the remainder of their week they had bread soft red hot water salt pepper and boiled rice with a spoonful of jam every Mandy but every Mandy farthest Sunday suit and boots and the girl's Sunday clothes were taken to uncles the pouring shop Nann was always taken along on Friday to retrieve them as the pom-pom broke have felt sorry for her and always gave her a half penny along with many other families of the time fathers would very often be drawn more be called upon to bring Wollie home with the help of the Nann sisters she always went there she always went through his pockets first to see if he had any money remaining in the which they kept in the front room will will spectrum was at hmv gramophone with a huge brass horn Nann was absolutely terrified of this thinking that ma'am would come out and get her during this time they moved across the road to number 19 next at hungerford school the Nann sisters and their father always also came along they had the two attic rooms and the gas stove was on the landing along with a single water tap mr mr nash died after a couple of years [Music] at the age of two Nann fell downstairs where she received a substantial blow to her legs over the next two years her site deteriorated and by the time she was four she was totally blind and crippled age five she started at prepped not school york way is linton which had two separate units one for blind children near the four handicapped each had two classrooms and their own playground in 1911 Nann's mother died leaving lily in to look after five girls an older brother and father a teacher at Nann's school thought it would be Nann impossible to ask for lily in having to care for them and Nann so I recommended that Nann be sent away Nann was sent to highgate hospital and from there to two others the names she could not recall she eventually ended up in queens mary carse ulturn sorry where she remained until 1916 the better were then required for wounded soldiers coming back from the first world war during her stay in hospital she was kept in bed for the majority of the time not receiving any schooling as there was no one to teach her braille their diagnosis at that time was that she had TB of the bones and as as the and as rest was the cure that was what she got although never ever actually confirmed you think it was still disease which is a form of arthritis in children usually trickled by some form of injury such as a severe narc when you're turning home with an iron on one leg in order to level her legs up a splimp with metal under the boots on the other Nann had to return to brettnot school to be taught braille and had to go into the beginners cars the following year having accomplished this she was sent to encourt residential school for the blind west northward 18 goodings road holland holland all the way london was the family home the accommodation consisted of a scullery kitchen dad's bedroom brother's bedroom this all on the ground floor upstairs the girls bedroom in which there was one double bed and one single lillian elsie amord shared the double whilst win and laddis had the single the remain of the house was occupied by another family on nann's arrival back home moored her to sleep with her friends the nann sisters over the road so that nann could have a bed bedding consisted of sheets and an old railway goats these they called our idodown with sleeves in cooking was done on the fire as the gas meter had been robbed and they could not afford to pay the boil the the bill oil lamps were used for lighting the food was very basic the mainstay is being bred hopefully a joint on sunday cold meat on monday then the bones stewed and would look glassed until thirsty for the remainder of their week they had breadsop breadsop red hot water salt and pepper and boiled rice with a spoonful of jam every monday father sunday suit and boots and the girls sunday clothes were taken to uncles the pawn shop nann was always taken along on friday to retrieve them as the pawn pawn broke i felt sorry for her and always gave her a half penny along with many other families of the time fathers would very often be drunk more be called upon to bring wally home with the help of the nann sisters she always went there she always went through his pockets first to see if he had any money remaining in them which they kept in the front room will will spectrum was at hmv gramophone with a huge brass horn nann was absolutely terrified of this thinking that the man would come out and get her during this time they moved across the road to number 19 next at hungerford school the nash sisters and their father always also came along they had the two attic rooms and the gas stove was on the landing along with a single water tap mr mr nash died after a couple of years in a lively and detailed way contributors of lives left ordinary take the reader back to an earlier time when difficult times were faced challenges overcome and history written men having returned from world war one sleeping on park benches pawning demob suits fathers returning from the front meeting their children for the first time a daughter recalls her her father made opera boots for the stage and of her seeing Errol Flynn at the dern gate north hankton how with no toilets on the train she rushed back from the station platform worrying that she might miss the train how the wilders played a big part in everyone's lives with children's hour on the home service beginning at 5 p.m. then there are memories of the coronation of georgia 1936 and queen Elizabeth in 1953 and on street parties at the age of two nan fell downstairs where she received a substantial blow to her legs over the next two years her site deteriorated and by the time she was four she was totally blind and crippled age five she started at precknut school york way is linton which had two separate units one for blind children near the forehandicapped each had two classrooms and their own playground in 1911 nans mother died leaving lily in to look after five girls an older brother and father a teacher at nan school felt it would be a non-impossible task for lily in having to care for them and nan so i recommended that nan be sent away nan was sent to high gate hospital and from there to two others the names she could not recall she eventually ended up in queens mary carse ulturn sorry where she remained until 1916 the beds were then required for wounded soldiers coming back from the first world war during her stay in hospital she was kept in bed for the majority of the time not receiving any schooling as there was no one to teach her braille their diagnosis at that time was that she had tb of the bones and as as the and as rest was the cure that was what she got although i never actually confirmed you think it was still disease which is a form of arthritis in children usually trickled by some form of injury such as a severe knock when you're turning home with an iron on one leg in order to level her legs up a splimp with metal under the boots on the other nan had to return to brecknut school to be taught braille and had to go into the beginner's class the following year having accomplished this she was sent to encore residential school for the blind west northward eighteen goodings road holland holland all the way london was the family home the accommodation consisted of a scullery kitchen dad's bedroom brother's bedroom this all on the ground floor upstairs the girls bedroom and which there was one double bed and one single lillian elsie and moord shared the double whilst win and laddies had the single the remain of the house was occupied by another family on nan's arrival back home moord had to sleep with her friends the nash sisters over the road so that nan could have a bed bedding consisted of sheets and an old railway goats these they called our idodown with sleeves in cooking was done on the fire as the gas meter had been robbed and they could not afford to pay the boil the the bill oil lamps were used for lighting the food was very basic the mainstay is being bred hopefully a joint on sunday cold meat on monday then the bones stewed and would look glassed until thirsty for the remainder of their week they had breadsop breadsop red hot water salt and pepper and boiled rice with a spoonful of jam every monday father sunday sou and boots and the girls sunday clothes were taken to uncles the pawn shop nan was always taken along on friday to retrieve them as the pawn board could felt sorry for her and always gave her a half penny along with many other families of the time fathers would very often be drunk more be called upon to bring wally home with the help of the nash sisters she always went there she always went through his pockets first see if he had any money remaining in them which they kept in the front room wilbs bedroom was at hmv gramophone with a huge brass horn nan was absolutely terrified of this thinking that the man would come out and get her during this time they moved across the road to number 19 next at hungerford school the nash sisters and their father always also came along they had the two attic rooms and the gas stove was on the landing along with a single water tap mr mr nash died after a couple of years um the following story was given to me um by arthur kyatt i know his daughter born 1930 london i was born at the white chapel hospital to elizabeth kyatt knee smith my mother was born in 1904 in the same area of london i'm leaving school she worked in the factory making tooth brushes and shaving brushes from bajahair my mum's parents lived in prichards road bathmore green which was a tool up and two down property my grandma the made much match boxes for brian and me she stuck on the strips of paper which she first put in water then stuck on the form she received very little money for this she also made trousers for school boys her husband my grandfather was a court cluster and this was fitted into policeman's helmets bit more interesting information to learn he died before i was born so i never knew him my auntly in a live close by and she worked as a french publisher which she carried out in her garden my father henry height was also born in 1904 he worked in a shoe factory the same one where his father was employed they made laid his shoes for during the world war two and they made boots for soldiers i was the youngest of identical twins my brother was also was also called henry we started school age two and a half and we used to sleep in the afternoons after the blinds were poured we were living in prichards road bathmore green at that time with my mother's parents we later moved to live with my father's mother in north street hatney after her husband my grandfather died the landlord would visit every week to collect the rent money which was six penny fathering it must have been a struggle for people to find enough money then as mum often spoke of people having their furniture thrown out in the streets when they could not afford to pay the rent we attended mowlin street infant school the boys and girls from 1935 there we learned to read and write and basic arithmetic when we reached the eight of eight years we went to sewed student road junior school this was quite a distance away it was near to victoria park in their park there were swings lides of boat in lake lido bunsand and an imaginary we were playing the park and sometimes turn the skipping rope for the girls eventually the house where we lived in in north street was demolished and we moved to a council flat on the pembury road estate in clapton this had electric lighting a bathroom and two bedrooms most of the families moving from north street then were housed on the same estate at the outbreak of world war two we were we were listed to chamber in we listened to chambering of this announcing this on the wireless we were evacuated to north at a place called paston close to the east coast we stayed with the chamber in paston for one year after which the government the government became for the safety of evacuees the threat of invasion on the in coast seemed likely so we were put on a train to wood air near town within the middlelands after we arrived at our new destination we were taken to a field where households had already gathered mr mrs hunt took us into their home which was a cottage keeper's cottage in the valley this had been a hunting cottage in the past we attended a local school but due to the increase in population caused by evacuees there was only one room to accommodate us in the mornings as though the shortage of teachers as was brought out of this retirement on leaving for work one morning mr hunt found chickens and pigs running loose outside he told us there are bits of pigs hanging from the trees as there had been a bombing raid overnight our parents were now really worried about our safety due to where we were living so they made a decision to bring us back to london on our return to london we attended the grocer school a lovely Victorian building near to where we lived in clapton the olympia plus had ceased during the war so all we went to we all went to an elementary school two years later having reached the age of 14 we left school and started work i was fortunate enough to gain employment with a building company part of our work was to go to properties that had been bomb had bombed damage so we could board them up we also had contracts to board up pubs and the and the bajaman would leave that barrels out it was our responsibility to make the roof waterproof weatherproof i remember working at the cot cabin hybrid corner where we were boarding at the windows when i doodle what drug book dropped on a nearby station my workmate dropped through the roof to the bottom floor injuring himself i was blown through a window and a piece of glass sliced into my head somebody wrapped my head in a towel then put me on a tram to witchington hospital to get treatment i still have that scar our teenage years seemed to last forever both my brother and myself had left school and were working i started evening classes however one night a v2 rocket landed on it and then managed to back of the school i was promised another place at a school further away that only had gas lighting the germans struck again this time with a doodle book and the school and schools completely demolished in nineteen four take my brother and i enjoyed dancing dancing and we went to parties with our friends as we reached hii and we all received our call at papers to do national service my brother and i went for our medical together and was successful in getting places as a first choice at raf we went to pudgate for our basic training and then moved on to raf cramwell number one radio station after passing the course i was posted to raf marham in northward but after a couple of weeks i was moved again to a radio radar site in bister after my time that raf bister was told i was being posted to germany my brother was stationed at raf heens freds i stayed with him until we both was dispatched to germany we had no idea exactly where in germany we were going or why we landed at raf gatto in birling after reporting to the signals commander i was enlightened on the situation i wonder why there was so many aircraft landing and taking off day and night we were told we were feeding the german population of birling by air air reported not only food but other supplies such as coal oil bay food and engineering equipment in fact anything that was needed to sustain life was brought in by air as there was no other route open i was set to work in the control tower controlling air traffic the shifts were long as we were in a station operation over 24 hours towards the end of my time in birling i was sent to raf gushishan in the british zone as they had demod some air traffic controllers and this had left them short staffed i was trying to get a return to gatoru and my brother when evening my brother when evening rang me to see if he could help there was a celebration going on there and he explained that the wafts were returning to britain as it was becoming too dangerous for them to stay in the to stay to because of the russia occupation the risk of i was eventually returned to britain burlin and was put in charge of direct tilling direction finding unit in 1949 nato had just been formed and i had direct contact via red telephone to nato headquarters if needed in january 1950 i was sent to raf raf brook of berg for a rehabilitation course this was intended to prepare me to go back into civil civil civilian life in march of that year i soon realized it was a scam to get me to sign on for further service i knew they were looking for wireless operations to go into the east of germany but i wasn't having any of that instead i returned to raf kirkham in march 1950 and i was demod from there i was once again a civilian and returned to my old job three months later came at the korean war i was recalled and sent to london airport to retrain on radar and more modern equipment in case i was needed for further service with the raf my girlfriend fire was not pleased as we were making plans to marry i resume my studies at the north and pelt polytechnic after securing my brie brie was implowing i married by in march 1952 at st mary church dulston we rented a flat in colverston cresson where we stayed for about six years at those daughter um balerie was born in 1954 we then moved to a relatives house and rented a flat there in 1962 our second daughter jillian was born about 18 months later we decided to move out of london to hundin den as we wanted a house of our own i obtained work as a jasmine for a refrigeration company but unfortunately the pay was not that good my friend tom who was a factory former and i left the company and obtained some contract work so that we could make enough money to buy our own houses i bought a house in sordry tom and i were working for a builder on research center and they asked me if i would like to work for them direct i joined their design team as a senior architect and stay there until my retirement in 1995 i carried on privately with my architect consultancy designing houses and extensions but as the planning laws and building regulations became more complex i called it a day and retired gradually much to my wife's pleasure that should be gracefully much to my wife's pleasure my wife died in 2009 my daughter valerie is now retired from our management position with department of works and pensions and my youngest daughter jillian is still working as a network design development manager this is my life story well not all of it as i'm still alive true the end one of pippmann born 1929 my father my father my father Ronald Arthur worked for the air ministry i know that he was pretty high up he had been transferred from london to commentary every night we would head for the nearest shelter we were near the blitz i remember october the 12 1942 the biggest day of the blitz i recall how we used to go into the recreational realm where shelters had been dug the following morning we returned to our house we had to walk home as there were no buses we discovered that five houses down from our house there was a parachute stuck on a chimney on on the end was a great big bomb it hadn't gone off if it had then the house in our street would have been destroyed as mum was walking she kept repeating the words i wonder if the house is still there i think that this must have been enough of my parents as they packed our cases and we walked away from my home my parents and i walked out of commentary i was 11 at the time they had decided to leave commentary and head to north anthem mum came from north anthem we would just carry on case each the passing driver stopped and asked of what where we were going when we told him of our planned destination he told us that we were going in the wrong way for the bus station he took us to his house and gave us tea after tea tea he took us to the bus station a really kind act the next memories are from may maris or 1928 my mother's name was hilder man and dad's name was harry man my brothers were bill harry john and can can and sisters mary and doreen i stayed in in chatham we were going to be inspected by king george so we have been given a few days off i was in there nappy club some sailors had a ride from a roaring navy ship they have been sailing the mediterranean a young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink i had a cider he will be back to the rent quarters then he asked me to go to the pictures the next evening we went to a film afterwards he walked me back to the rent quarters and asked me to marry him i said no about 12 months after i had been to my when i was scraping potatoes with my mother she told me that i should write to cliff he had been writing to me since i met him she said i should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore i said i wouldn't like him to think i hadn't contacted him so i wrote to him and said that i would marry him he came proceeded to leave to our house he told me that he had been in the marines and they had been shot in the leg whilst in in verma we married on august 50th 1950 we spent christmas together and then he sent the courier on the hm s constants for the first four years fair marriage i never saw him but he used to write every day when he came back to play with we saw each other at weekends when he was demob we moved to ron's we have three children malony in anandrew in so 22 years in the army he came out as a well an officer malony works in education and is a school governor in works in an office and andrew is a postman they are very good children and are always there for me on april 25th 2011 my husband died at the funeral my daughter's husband read a chibre tribute to him the love stuff like lifeboat took his ashes out to see he'd always love lowest stuff we had a mobile bed i move on with my next story to see what actually has been recorded now if there wasn't a nearby school which would be taught by someone at the nearest army camp we had a lovely time when the marihar mariharcher sent his elephants up to pick us up we would sit on a seat on the anodeon it was great fun that would go shooting if a child had been taken by a wild animal he would go out and shoot it we had walls around the house two men with guns would always be on guard we had a very earth quake at coiter when many people were killed my parents were away at the other one of the other camps if it hadn't been for our servants who stole food food for us we could have starved we didn't know where our father was for three years as he had been sent to or where he had been sent to he didn't know where we were either i think that the film little princess really reflected my life my eldest brother and my stepbrother were captured by the japanese one was a gunnery officer and was beaten all his teeth and nails were taken out when he refused to answer any of their questions during the interrogate interrogation within 24 hours he was dead we didn't know where he was buried my younger brother was in hospital for two years i realized that many people now live in in japan in 2014 were not even born then i hope that nothing such as the awful experiences suffered by some prisoners then will ever be repeated i was six months old when i was taken to india returning home 15 years later took us six weeks as we were being chased by submarines floating mines everything i recall how we never took our life jacket jackets off when we arrived home we saw arts and uncles that we never knew we had i'd always dreamed of becoming a nurse when i left school so when i left school at the age of 18 however in the meantime i had caught chicken pots and measles when i went for my interview to become a nurse i was informed that i wouldn't be fit enough to become a nurse of course i was very disappointed i immediately decided to join the army instead i recalled how i was given a queen shilling for food for a day i still have this shilling i ended up by being in charge of 24 girls there was sometimes bad peas in the pot i recall a girl with lovely blonde hair i discovered that some of the girls were bullied it were bullied in this girl i took the bullies to the train and put them on it the bully girl threw herself into the river and drowned i had to identify the girl and then go on to tell her parents she was an only child and the way that bullying still happens even in 2014 it's essential that all bullies are reported and thrown out wherever that this happens to be i met my husband when i was in the army he came to collect 15 of my girls for work which was either in the cook house or the officers met mess we got talking during the journey he asked me to go to the pictures with him and i said yes we married on january the 15th 1949 i'd left the army on january the first after being demobbed i was quite unhappy to see the men getting suits shirts boots etc was women got a 10 pound note and clothing coupons it was so unfair we did the same job as men but got nothing in comparison i was lucky in that i had support for my husband to be calling we had two boys and two girls were born in 1949 51 55 and 62 i'm happy to say that they have to all done well in life one of my sons worked as a carpenter for mariots and finished in a senior position my other son passes 11 plus to go to grandma's school but his friends were going to secretary of modern school he went there instead one of my son's breeds knowledge canaries they are such beautiful birds many of the birds i've brought by people living abroad my son won't send them away so the purchaser has to come and fetch the canary my son writes in the birds and avarice magazine he often travels abroad to judge we moved to rinsett north amton she is soon after our marriage and remained in the same house until my health deteriorated and we now moved and then we moved to a bungalow in rinsett my husband had a bag for when he was outside fortunately boys from flaps and school heard his cries for help as they were passing their our home they helped to bring him into our house which i was for which i was very grateful near even in telegraph reported these boys after i had contacted newspaper i feel that it is important that kind actions are recognized my husband and i had a good life together and shared the same interest of boring and Latin dancing we danced among other places at waymouth we would stay for the week on holiday developing our dancing skills often being televised land gorgman taught us once we would dance during the day and then be judged in the evening i love coming to come to a care eherium rorns due to osteoarthritis and rheumatism i can't walk very far now but this is a wonderful place to come to if i didn't come here twice a week all i would have would be four walls to look at i missed my husband who died in 2012 the end of this story pelle and fairy born 1927 i was born at the army hospital as that was in the army that started as a stable boy and ended as a lieutenant colonel my father William James Alfred Withers was born in 1890 my father mother e to throws was born at farm brand near order shot in 1886 she was a nurse and also a matron in the army my sister Betty was born in India in 1924 she was only three pounds at birth she was a wonderful little girl she passed her 11 person went to bairwood grammatical it was why she was studying at pine woods that she died from tier tb i had a step brother and two brothers the oldest was also in the army and had the same name as my father Withers is a real Birmingham name i didn't attend a proper school for very long when i was in India sometimes i went to a convent convent we moved every six months when it was very hot we went to school schools up in the hills oh i now i now move on to the next story in lives less ordinary this is Mona Wallace who was born 1926 and and it's on page 88 of lives less ordinary i was born in Barry's South Wales from school i did a shorthand and typing course from this building during the second world war we could see bombs being dropped on Barry docks i got a job with British line film distribution in Cardiff as a secretary i met Ronald Wallace when my mother used to organize social gatherings for the servicemen at St Athan RAF base after the war we moved to London where we lived for the next 62 years Ronald's mum died and so we cared for his dad and his brother we had a son Anthony who worked part-time in a shop called Lictons however Anthony married and moved away later in life i had a job at Natwestern Central London and what there until i retired when my husband died i moved to Rawls to be near my son and daughter in law later i became unwell and they now take very good care of me i look forward to come into kind of can do care now can do care was in Rawls Brenda Mab i was born to Sydney Gambour a mum Marion Elizabeth mum was born in Yarmouth whilst my dad was born at Naisby mum was 96 when she died dad worked as a gradsman at the boiling green in Yarmouth where we lived and where i was born there were rows of houses they were so close that you were able to reach over and touch the hand of the person we lived opposite you we moved when i was age six sadly all these houses were bombed i was born in row number 100 and at house number six i had two brothers one brother is now about 95 but we lost my other brothers some years ago we all moved to the coast where mum ran a bed and breakfast place during the summer she would have holiday makers whilst in the winter she would take in scottish girls these girls used to gut the herrings they used to be troughs with the where the herrings were kept the men coopers used to make the barrels used to store the herrings in i went to green acre school for girls which was in admirty road i didn't like school i managed to leave school just as the war um started in 1939 our family went to live with an aunt who lived in heston middle sets as a safer place to live at the bottom of our garden we had an Anderson shelter which accommodated five of us our uncle used to keep watch we also had shelters called morrisons basically this was like a great big table which was reinforced we would go there if we needed shelter quickly i had a sister who was bombed out when living in coven tree they all run for their lives then i managed to complete just one day at my first job i was working at McFarland which was a biscuit factory the smeller baking biscuits made me feel sick from there i went to work as a lift operator at the car up in middle sets after this i worked for pyrene who made fire extinguishers relative manager managed to get me a job at tatny color this was an american firm a lot of our family were working there i was a filing clerk for a while before going on to what i viewed as my proper job doing films there are only three colors that we worked with when we were when we were there which were yellow cyan and magenta the firm was a film firm was a film post in industry with a machine on the top floor this machine was called iB anyway blank films will run through hence the coloring films 35 mm wide were then placed into cans tins for shipping shipment to various places i worked in the shipping department and had to wear white gloves whilst checking the end films to protect them although the walls are and i was very happy working at tatny color my lovely workmate joe nicknamed rusty work there we have what were called faults above ground and outside the factory which was called a plant there was quite a funny thing which happened once we needed a couple of spare tins so i went to the vault with a chap called alph we put the light on from outside and then went in however once we were inside someone slammed the door locked us both in six since nickname was bunk he was called that he was able to reach upper shelves in the plant by being bumped up there was a field now where women were potato picking suddenly they were bombed and all the women killed they were hit by doodle box bugs you could only know that you were about to be bombed when an engine when the engine caught out i recall how i was in bed when i saw a doodle bog with a sound like a motorbike engine going off when i saw a light in the tail i realized that it wasn't for us it was like land mines going off i was cycling home with two lats when a land mine was dropped close to our house the window glass fell into our house and there was glass everywhere when dad arrived home he wondered where his whiskey had gone he was told that my mum and aunt had drunk it the boy is Charles and Derek who had cycled home with me helped clear all the glass up i first made contact with a surs serviceman and became a pen friend his name one of many was in a newspaper the lady who had organized it or sent me henney earnest to be my pen pen i was about 18 when i started writing and he was 20 when i eventually met him for the first time i had to wear some sort of identification i wore a grey coat had a black bag and carried a green chiffon scarf no sooner as i got him home he became mum's blue i boy we married on the 26th of march 1949 at St Peter's church hounds low west i had a wedding dress made out of satin that my boyfriend had brought back from mortar we have one Ted wedding cake handmade by my work collie pan there was my only bridesmaid i had a daughter Pauline who also lives in morn she brings me to kandu care my other daughter is now 60 lives in lincoln one daughter works as a cleaner and the other works on the checker at katri tesco's i have six runs since and seven great grandchildren some time ago i lived in lincoln but my son-in-law told his wife to arrange for me to live closer to them i actually live in a self contained room with a link to their house i feel that i'm locked after so well by them i've arranged to pay for both my daughters to have a holiday jiarma this year we are busy savi and our substances which we plan to spend in the slot machines there i love coming to sachs and hall of rawns as i have so many friends who also come here where we are able to always taking care of i used to enjoy knitting but due to arthritis i'm unable to knit anymore but i keep busy doing words such hos words or watching that countdown i love that too jones jones born 1923 my mother f-ilmae was born at milton malza in 1899 it was my father henney jones was born in 1903 near the mount snorff umpson i don't know anything about my grandfathers but i do know that my grandmother seira langley died at the age of 75 in 1933 my other grandmother granny hodge died when i was older i had one older brother my grandmother had 15 children some were twins i attended an andrew's church when i was five i remember that once i was talking to a big boy who i was sitting next to the teacher made me stay in i was peeved about this i decided i wasn't going to stop him but it instead decided to go home i managed to lift the latch of this heavy door and slipped out my father was a craftsman who made big opera boots for the stage i think that the firm he worked for was called whites i'd often go with my mum to take sandwiches to dad he would be where the leathers were hanging to be dried the factory was just off haventon street tanner is tanner's were quite dangerous places them before mum married she told me that she had once known someone who worked in a big house in the village a lord and lady lived there apparently it used to practice to have two nages sleeping in the house keep it out aired when the residents were away my mum was a model in the 50s she modeled for a lady who made gowns dad died in 1947 mum later remarried and then went to live in yaw granny longley was a kind of bun lady i loved it when she made me chocolate drinks auntie mad lived next door to granny at rose cottage mares aspie the cottage was at the top of the lane i worked i worked in a shoe shop whilst i was still at school it was my job to go and get the pieces of leather let's have the shoe shop and the grand jury they sold pieces of leather to my dad this is actually how it came to be that i got my job after leaving school i was 14 then i was showing how to do different jobs and also how to sell the shoes to how to sell the how to sell the shoes to the customers the manager s of this door worked up stairs she and her partner belonged to a local drama group they needed more people to work in the shop i was taught about actually buying the shoes we bought from high quality shoe firms including barf as a well as barton we also bought from the furbine in regent street north outton over the mounts it was near brook manufacturers a chinese laundry haulage contractors and the employment exchange i was at the same same shop for about three years i loved the day i went to a shoe fair in london we had snacks at lion's corner house what i didn't much like was going on the tube train despite being scared i was also excited i'd have to buy my dress when i worked at let's his shoes the manager of my the next firm didn't want me to wear the shoes i had got from let's i had to comply i didn't like this job very much so gave me my notice but didn't have another job to go to i then went to work at a shop in broad street where they sold beds i had to go into this room with a large air vent this was where the mattresses were filled with stuffing the women wouldn't wouldn't let me use the machine so i left it was then that i found this job at the studio in naminton north ampton i was 19 when i left this job but whilst i was still at my first job i trained another girl to do what i was doing i thought that i should ask mr koopa if i could have a what weight rise he would blide if i give you a weight rise then i would have to give all the girls a weight rise i wasn't very happy with what he told me so decided to go for another job at the studio in naminton street north ampton i was offered a job with them i returned to my then current employer and told him i was going to take the job i'd just been offered it was at this point that he offered me an increase in my wages at the henry koopa studio it was my job to retuck thin perfections on the pictures it was a bit like the airbrush in which is done to photography today we had this little frame and the film was on a glass plate the negative was back to front if i saw something like a pocket flapper on a wedge interest it didn't look right then it would be my job to try and fill it in i remember i will flim being at the downgate when i downgate when i was working at the shoe shopping the drapery i've worked at five and a half days a week there wasn't a lot of money in our house so most of my wages would have been needed at home i would have to save up for my clothes and used to buy them from ablington street i think that my wage then would have been about 50 shillings a week there was this girl who said she knew how old as he had stayed at their boarding house she said how he had helped to pay for his lodges with a box of chocolates i once went to the exchange just cinema in the market square it was all very flesh and round i recall how there was this restaurant in the exchange and there was a waitress service with food that i hadn't even eaten before there were these lovely white tablecloths and you didn't have to book we could go to yarmouth when i was about 12 we stayed with the landlady called mrs angels mum would buy the food for us all and mr. change will cook to it we would catch a steam train from north outton the train didn't have any toilets so we would have to wait until the water turned needed we filling and then mr. toil it then i was afraid that i might miss the train sometimes we would have to sit on the luggage there was a first second and third class of travel travel at this time i think that this was about 1935 i remember how i told my mum that i wanted to learn to dance she taught me to a lady who lived in a house just off grafton street north ampton north ampton has changed so much since i was younger i used to go roller skating with ryan he was a good skater he also liked to swim and dive there was this french young french reaganner who i was friend with he was shot down and killed during the war i used to go on a motorbike with the boy who would later become my husband of course there were no rules then about wearing helmets he left he lived next door to me so i did bury the boy who lived next door i married one old Hamilton Jones in the 40s we were engaged when i was 16 but didn't get married until i was 20 we made up the church of the holy seppercut in north ampton there was an usual dome on this church i believe that the font came from a church in drusseman rondock was in the world for air force during the war he was in canada he created the dikes for the officers this was a specialist job he was pen in penhold calgary he made friends with an old old lady who looked after some of the servicemen she had a rather pretty granddaughter this lady sent us a beautiful tablecloth when we later got married one bought me things like beautiful stockings and silk underwear during the war i was sent to ilfecrum where i worked as a nursing auxiliary i have been in the red crossbar to being sent in there and that must have helped me this was about the time when my return to home from canada i was in the army camp which was near teliaver race course i did some square bashing at the camp i was later sent to bournemouth i was saying in what was called a holding unit i was in the princess alexander nursing team it was generally meant in the in the painting that we cared for and man in his late six this happened to take rather a shine to me he was a doctor i gave out a lot of medicines which were called 99s which were intended to help men with digestion problems one of my patients was to accompany one of my duties was to accompany patients who had to go to hospital there was once this young girl who said she had swallowed an needle she was made to eat cotton or sandwich i was in the unit for about 18 months and was happy there i saw my wedding dress on a model in the shop window when i was at boscombe and just fell in love with it it cost 15 pounds i had to have it i had one bridesmaid we didn't go on honeymoon but instead went to see agave's prey play the mousetrap it was a tight squeeze where i sat two sat between two big people either side of me i couldn't sit next to ron when we were first married we stayed at my parents house but shortly after went to live with one's dad's family there were two main bedrooms and there was a box room his father grandfather and brother lived there so it was a bit overcrowded it was the bad wind of 1947 when we were offered our council house the pre-fab pass was very cold in the winter there was a copper boiler i would have to put my coat on in the winter we did have an outside toilet as well as an inside toilet my daughter pam left school when she was 15 she went to work in a stationary wholesaler but they also sold household goods cards and toys one of my sons sons had an apprenticeship with brevitz where he lent the skill of knife making my other two daughters worked as nanny's in america for a couple of years i now have 13 grandchildren and 10 great children grandchildren with another on the way ollif jervis i was born at home to mother annie and father edward leedham father was born in berming i mean 1895 and mum was born the same year dad worked for york's cutting souls for children shoes before going to work at a shoe factory at the bottom of sheep's street mum was employed by chamberlands which was a slipper factory in pork road she later worked for gents where she made gloves when dad wasn't working he would be busy with his allotment or working in his garden the garden field was in Chester road it was our job every sunday to go and pick the vegetables for sunday dinner mum always had a cut of brisket which she would boil we then take it to the bakers in winsonley road where where he actually put in would be cooked around it my brother's job was to take a job to the off-license in new common road where there were fetch a pint of beer sometimes they'd have a sip so they would add water to the top of the jug up again as soon as they got home dad used to drive us to golster near yarma for our annual holidays which stay in an apartment mum still had to shop and then do all the cooking though i left school age 14 and what in the factory i just like this i was later called up to work as a nursing auxiliary i'd been a member of st john's ambulance in wellingborough after six weeks training at north anturn general hospital i returned to isebut hospital i was later posted to a convalescent home at wink hill stapper chair i had to go to north staff rehabilitation to learn how to help dress the disabled and treat the army treat army boys from all over the place i actually made a date with one of the boys i was nursing i wondered why he didn't turn up i later turned learn the reason was when a young man who later became my husband joe had worn this young man off he told him how he planned to marry me joe was discharged but returned to see me used to stay in the village one night i asked the night nurse to leave the back door and lot but she must have forgotten and locked it joe started to throw stones up what he thought was her window it was in fact the matrons window i blushed like anything when i heard her complaining the following morning what a bad storm there must have been in the night i was on leave when wellingborough was brought dropped was bombed one bomb dropped near all saints jr school another was dropped near the crown and anchor and another near the police station in midland road i was working at iceberg hospital then i dropped rice pudding that i was feeding someone with all over the place i was really scared we heard the bands when Coventry was being bombed the bomber planes flew over wellingborough the sky lit up we had to carry babies one in each arm down concrete steps all the babies from iceberg were taken to st mary's hospital at ketchup i was scared of dropping the baby so i decided to carry only one baby at a time when the all clear siren was sounded we came up again i married joe all saints church wellingborough the war had finished by then i was still at stoke everyone was joyous the hall all went to we went to was packed i remember listening to records like i'll be with you in apple blossom time and strings of pearls of course i were not war and nurses uniform which included black stockings we kept a pair in our adult dormitory for any of us to use i got on really well with the other girls we just supported each other we worked from age in the morning until five at night with two and a half at days off we nurses were lucky in that we had tins of fruit from south africa we also ate rice pudding every day i soon got fed up with rice pudding though if we were off on sundies we'd take the injured men to the morning service in the private church i think it was owned by a lord roth child i borrowed a wedding dress from a colleague my dad bought a chocolate wedding cake for me whilst matron made a two-tier ice cake as was the that's was the tradition i saved one allen was born on the march on march of 14th the following year i was 25 and jose was 29 we couldn't get a council house we live with my parents allen was almost two before we got an orliet house it was lovely of course to have a house of our own but it was very it was so very cold so we sorted our extra heat in ourselves joe had bronchitis every year joe is by now working at greek's at wollaston he's to do the stunts on golf shoes i remember that they're all colors i'm really and really bright and of good quality when joe lived in stokey stokey worked in the pottery industry making plates his job was to take all the roughness off of the plates and then they would be ready for glazing he always said how much he liked this job however he chose well in rachaeli because he felt that our town was a lovely market town and i felt the same then so much has changed over the years with many buildings poured down in orders and modernized i remember going to the regal picture house in the market square that was poured down in order to make way for the supermarket brilis i think then there was the lyrics in middle and road as well as pictures there would be also be concerts on a sunday which we sometimes went to joe like boxing and football he always followed his hometown of portfale after allen was born i was a worked at home i made runners and car mats for a small businessman he went on to employ three other machinists it was better paid but not as good as going out to work i returned to i's book well in bro when allen was older i mostly worked on the geriatric wards until i retired we had a reasonable bus service which we've run by united counties we had our first television in 1953 so that we could watch the coronation i think we were the first in the street to have a telly all the kids from our street watch with us all of them waving waving union jacks i made them all sandwiches of course i also remember the funeral akin george prior to this day everyone more black then everyone was shocked the day i edward up abdicated the throne allen went to corolland road infant school and then onto john lee it was such a shame when it was poured down we used to like carnevors which were then held at bacic park we'd all dance around the bandstand later in the evening everyone followed the band down to well in bros station i really love the sight smell in fact everything about steam trains we all used to go to peta bro and sit on the on the bank near the station and then watch the trains come in and go in our sons would be taking the numbers of the trains we always used to take a pat lunch at the times allen his and his friends used to bite somewhere near nor vampton if they were late joe and i would go to meet them and then bring bring them and their bikes home in our car i live in a lovely flat in sharsbury house joe and i moved here in 1986 joe loved it it's really quiet without joe he died in two thousand and two without without the saddest day of my life i'm 91 now i'm happy living here the other tenants are so good i'm willing to help at any time we have a warden who works part-time to help us when when she is not there we have an on-call system to help in in an emergency memory memory for mallet in the days before emotion emotion came into the market there would be distemper we had an outside toilet every year during the winter the water would be turned off i would have been about five years of age i found this tin which i thought contained water and i peed in this for a few weeks dad unaware of my activities painted this novel mixture onto the toilet walls it took some time to discover the reason for this smell my granddad kalwa Kenwell's worked in the shoe industry the factory was on doddington road where the car part now is my granddad bought me a plastic boat which i loved he still have an allotment in book street east which is where satsbury's factory used to be that is the end of hollies story thank you allie the next contribution comes from jim born 1920 i met jim at berten latimer library i i was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humor and it was a lovely place to be at berten library and sillies um so jim 1920 my mother dorothy meycata was born in chalfant st jiles buckinghamshire in 1884 my father james form was born in 1884 mum met dad when she visited her relatives in london dad worked as a glazier i believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he he joined the army he wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived but the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead when he left the army he was kept in the army reserve dad then got taken on by the metropollet and railway at bakers street this was the first underground wayway in the world his job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting he continued with this job until germany declared war dad latimer told me that he was in france in 48 hours it was at morn's in belgium there were hundreds of men to begin with this was the first time that my dad had hebert had to fire a rifle to kill the battle continued for three days a lot of men were lost orders were given to retreat they retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of paris a french general realized that the leplanc of germany was weak so he commended all the taxes in paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the german's from advancing german's french hand which had started to dig their own trenches there were many casualties mr church your thought of other plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the german's battle hardened troops were put into boats and steamships the men were told to march up and down the beach they were told to fire between the legs of the enemy not directly up them however this proof futile the men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing they wore was insufficient sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed after the war dad returned to the metropolitan way away everyone was so poor then women were singing the streets a lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river the organ grinder would be given out to tune ramsie mr donnell became the first labor prime minister but after 18 months he resigned child payments were later cut from one chilling and six months to one chilling or wheat adult payments were also reduced they followed the jarrow marches they had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from jarrow to london the jarrow march was not backed by a political party but was formed by all classes of people all people want to do was to work but there was no work available pick poor people were stigmatized then just as they are stigmatized now there were soup kitchens in the schools you could smell the soup being caught we lived in a small property the rent went seven trillions a week that had been supplied with a blue-seared suit after he was discharged from the army the pawning of this suit was our rent money mum would pawn the suit on monday for seven trillions then get soup back on friday mum and dapel go to the pub for a drink on sattities beer would be four pence a pint the following monday would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again the queue was always long everyone was poor then mum and dapel good parents in spite of the poverty they faced they then followed the spanish flu it was said that more people died from the flu than dead in the great war mum and dad lost twins aged three to this flow i had short trousers and jumpers but no underwear rickets and tuberculosis were rife there was no medical help for these conditions really apart from being sent to open air air hospitals i have an old assista called dorothy and a younger sister called margaras my younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever she was 17 funerals were paid for by the month you could be buried for eight pounds when the nash assistance came in it was 28 pounds to pay for a coffee and many people were buried in porpoise graves then i used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket i used to use the lamppost as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived i went to bridge school and w10 i'd walk to school i loved to read when i was at school in fact i learned to read by reading the bible i stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage children who weren't as confident as me would be would be given the cane a grown man given a child the grain if i pulled my hand back then i get another stroke i had an eyesight i had mysteries who was very good as she would just slap me you started at standard boy but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one special need schools didn't exist then there were 43 children in my class boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls did cooking and ill work i had to be able to read the ruler if my work reached the required standard then i'd be a i'd get a stamp on my card a lot of children left school without being able to read all right i met a young girl at harrow on the hillways recently she was aged about 23 or 24 she told me that she couldn't read i don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so i had gave her some money it was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgraced now teaching has changed so much from when i was a child i learned by rote i also think going to what silent movies helped me to read remember how there were bubble there was a bubble with the words in it on the screen i could read well by the time i was age seven i remembered cliff hanger and waltomelli cal bian work cal boy and western films as well as charlie chapping all his movements were to mime but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos they really made me laugh when we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard the only book we had in our house when i was a boy was the bible and a book on military law that could remember everything he read in this book he could read but he couldn't spell before my mum married dad she was living in a tide cottage with her family a father was a farm laborer mum told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbors mum used to help out there so she learned sign language i had family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s it was a commandean Canadian model which was shipped to england there wasn't a brick on this house it had four bedrooms and i shared a bed with my brother until i was older i think that they were lucky to live in i think we were lucky to live in a nice home we had a separate bathroom and toilet there was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden we lived at number number one wembley which was by the river Brent it's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us he paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege we also had 40 units of free electricity every week however a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money our lives were different then a green grocery van visited the street weekly the butcher would sell all his meat late on saturday at a greatly reduced price mum used to buy tea boughner beef we'd have a sunday rose called me on monday then on tuesday mum would make us sure everything including onions would go into the park it smelled lovely the butcher would deliver a block of ice blocks of ice regularly these blocks would be delivered wrapped in sacking to keep the ice cold a van came around the street street every week selling car bollocks substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses the rag and bow mannequinred around every day wives used to love going out and finding a bargain whenever the rag and bow mannequinred over visits were later reduced to once a week one a week when new regulations were introduced the milkman would come around with his pony every day there would be a big contains on the back of his trolley where the milk was kept women would take out their measuring jugs to fetch the milk their milk from him another my earlier memories is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this old car it had a solid it had solid rubber tires the boys must have spent ages trying to make it roworthy another funny memory i have is a private bus company's racing to get to collect their passengers before other bus companies got there this practice came to the end after the end of after the london transport company was formed i left school at 14 and went into the engineering business i worked for waivers engineering me never me never rode will was willstone i didn't like this job so i left after about four months i then got a job at b8 ea wood royal wood royal sovereign pencil company this firm process would from africa pencils have different words wood is put into the solutions then into gas ovens wood was delivered by lorries it was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines the heat was turned on for 34 hours afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before before being before being taken to the world's offering factory for pencil making i was employed there for about two years the next contribution comes from jim born in 1920 i met jim at that latin i i was impressed by his liveliness and his right mind and his brilliant sense of humor uh and it was a lovely place to be at that library and silliness um so jim 1920 my mother dorothy mey Carter was born in chelfon st jiles fucking she in 1884 four my father jim's form was born in 1884 mum met dad when she visited carorellis in london dad walked as a glazier i believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he joined the army he wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived but the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead when he left the army he was kept in the army reserve dad then got taken on by the metropolitan railway at bakers street this was the first underground wayway in the world his job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting he continued with this job until jim metichler war dad later told me that he was in france in 48 hours he was at morn's in belgium there were hundreds of men to begin with this was the first time that my dad had heber actifier rifle to kill the battle continued for three days a lot of men were lost orders were given to retreat they retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of paris a french general realized that the laplanke of germany was weak so he commented all the taxes in paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the german's from advancing german's french uncle which had started to dig their own trenches there were many casualties mr church your thought of other plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the german's battle hardened troops were put into boats and steamships the men were told to march up and down the beach they were told to fire between the legs of the enemy not directly up them however this proof futile the men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing their war was insufficient sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed after the war dad returned to the metropollet and wayaway everyone was so poor then women were seen in the streets a lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river the augum grinder would be given out of tune ramsie mukdonnell became the first labor prime minister but after 18 months he resigned child payments were later cut from one chillin and six months to one chillin or wheat adult payments were also reduced they followed the jarrow marches they had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from jarrow to london jarrow march was not that by a political party that was formed by all classes of people all people want to do was to work but there was no work available people were stigmatized then just as they are stigmatized now there were soup kitchens in the schools you could smell the soup being caught we lived in a small property we went when seven chillins a week dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army the pawning of this suit was our rent money mum would pawn the suit on monday to seven chillins then get the suit back on friday mum and dapal go to the pub for a drink on sattages be it would be four pence a pint the following monday would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again the queue was always long everyone was poor then mum and dapal good parents in spite of the poverty they faced they then followed the spanish flu it was said that more people died from the flu than dead in the great war mum and dad lost twins aged three to this flu i had short trousers and jumpers but now underwear rickets and tuberculosis were rife there was no medical help for these conditions really apart from being sent to open air air hospitals i have an old assistant called Dorothy and a younger sister called marvara my younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever she was 17 funerals were paid for by the month it could be buried for eight pounds when the nash assistance came in it was 28 pounds to pay for a copy and coffee and many people were buried in porpoise graves then i used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket i used to use the lamppost as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived i went to bridge school n w 10 i walked to school i left to read when i was at school in fact i learned to read by reading the bible i stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage children who weren't as confident as me would be would be given the cane a grown man given a child the grain if i pulled my hand back then i'd get another stroke i had an eyes head mistress who was very good as she would just slap me you started at standard boy but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one special needs schools didn't exist then there were 43 children in my class boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls didn't cook in a needlework i had to be able to read the ruler if my work reached the required standard then i'd be a i'd get a stamp on my card a lot of children left school without being able to read all right i met a young girl at harrow on the hillways recently she was aged about 23 or 24 she told me that she couldn't read i don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so i had gave her some money it was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgrace now teaching has changed so much from when i was a child i learned by rote i also think going to what silent movies helped me to read remember how there were bubble there was a bubble with words in it on the screen i could read well by the time i was age seven i remembered cliffhanger and walter millie calby and work calby and western films as well as charlie chapping all his movements were to mind but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos they really made me laugh when we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard the only book we had in our house when i was a boy was the bible and a book on military law that could remember everything he read in this book he could read but he couldn't spell before my mum married dad she was living in a tight cottage with her family her father was a farm laborer one told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbors mum used to help out there so she learned sign language our family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s it was a Canadian model which was shipped to england there wasn't a brick on this house it had four bedrooms and i shared a bed with my brother until i was older i think that they were lucky to live in i think we were lucky to live in a nice home we had a separate bathroom and toilet there was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden we lived at number number one wembling which was by the river Brent it's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us he paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege we also had 40 units of free electricity every week however a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money our lives were different then the green growth we've done visit the street weekly the portu would sell all his meat late on saturday at a greatly reduced price mum used to buy a t-bone a beef we'd have a sunday rose called me on monday then on Tuesday mum would make us sure everything including onions would go into the park it smelled lovely the portu would deliver a block of ice blocks of ice regularly these blocks would be delivered wrapped in sacking to keep the ice cold a bank came around the street every week selling car bollocks substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses the rag and bow man called around every day wives used to love going out and finding a bargain when they're the rag and bow man called over visits were later reduced to once a week one a week when new regulations were introduced the milkman would come around with his pony every day there would be a big contains on the buckham's trolley where the milk was kept women would take out their measuring jugs to fetch the milk their milk from him another my earlier name is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this old car it had a solid it had solid rubber tyres the boys must have spent ages trying to make it roworthy another funny memory i have i have is of private bus companies racing to get to collect their passengers before the bus company's got there this practice came to the end after the end of after the london transport company was formed i left school at 14 and went into the engineering business i worked for waivers engineering me never minnever road wilston i didn't like this job so i left after about four months i then got a job at b8 ea wood royal wood royal sovereign pencil company this firm process would from africa pencils have different words wood is put into the solutions then into gas and ovens wood was delivered by loris it was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines the heat was turned on for 34 hours afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before before being before being taken to the walls of refactress and for pencil making i was employed there for about two years at the start of the second world war i had to go for a medical checkup at actin drill hall i recall that this was near iron mongrel and oil shots the result of this was me getting a letter to post in the post to go to a private practice in windpull street i was ushered in to see this doctor he even had his own x-ray machine i was given another physical examination i wasn't up to service not even being a bevan boy i then worked for victoria machine tour company indoor that north actin i had been doing vertical drilling before my job was now to do drill castings making vertical drills for milli machines it was a family firm i was there for about 32 years i was a maid redundant and was without a job for about two months my sonny nor helped me to get a job at general motor skin was free i was then forced to look around for another job and was lucky enough to find a job working at the hines bure factory it was a good firm to work for as they had a canteen which opened from 6 30 a.m until 10 a.m then opened again from 12 until 2 then 5 until 6 30 p.m it was a factory that was open all day and night the factory was next to the grand union canal in the early days the boats even transported live turtles to make turtle soup in the same factory were women who were putting olives into jars the women were not allowed to talk they had huge barrels of vinegar also brought in on barges the factory also had its barges bringing in things like baked beans they had about six lines of beans from small to large i remember that there were half a pound of tins of beans we'd pork about on the top mum used to buy a tin for me i recall how they used to have little lines running above where that where we worked all the tins would be moving along at these lines mr hines who was a quaker was a very generous man and had started his business in america growing horse radish etc and he would sell his produce on the markets he must have done very well doing this in 1920 he came to London on a business trip with the businessmen he met bought up all his stock the factory had a doctrine five nurses to help to look after everyone there used to be five tea rooms if you started work early then you would be given a free breakfast it would be very handy for single people being able to get their meals in the factory canteen every christmas people would be given a gift every five years you were given a booklet with things that you could choose as a gift it proved very beautiful for young people who were looking at setting up home and getting married i married mrs dorning gower at williston register office in 1947 she had three boys i met her when she was working as a captain lay operator at the victoria tour company she had been living in totterland until she got bombed out we had three daughters and a son our first child was born in 1947 she now lives in bushinia whatford our second daughter was born in 1949 she now lives in pent pinner our next daughter was born in jesember 1951 we then had a son born december 31st 1955 he lives in berten latimer i have been living in berten latimer since 1993 i have ten grandchildren my family generally come up to visit me every three or four months i was in hospital not totober for a few weeks when i was discharged i stayed with my daughter in bushinia for a while my wife died day after boxing day 1985 which also was the year that i retired she died following a heart attack i moved to berten latimer when london by two dangers to remain we had been burgled twice and two house bricks had been thrown through the windows i had an elder brother who lived in that helped harrow his wife had died i would go and visit him and neither moved in with me i love berten it feels free from crime we know muggings are stealing of cars i still love tress and love to visit berten library so do i gin a really lovely and welcome in place i live from day to day now i love to talk to all the people who live there i would say that there are an awful lot of transient people living here i met bloke a few years ago who told me how he had a distinguished conduct medal he said how his last operation was to free prisoners on before on the borders of poland in statin when they had polished the german guard's off it was tea time he said to them isn't it about time you went home this man drunks man's pale in brown ale which made me decide that i would like to sit next to him we belong to the rac club i think that they built five of five apart apartments there that's the end of um jim story but another really obviously valuable one brilliant sense of humor library and sillies um so jim 1920 the next contribution comes from jim born 1920 i met jim at berten latimer library i i was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humor uh and it was a lovely place to be at berten library and sillies um so jim 1920 my mother Dorothy May Carter was born in chalfont St Giles Buckinghamshire in 1884 my father James form was born in 1884 mum met dad when she visited her relatives in london dad worked as a glazier i believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he he joined the army he wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived but the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead when he left the army he was kept in the army reserve dad then got taken on by the metropolitan railway at bakers street this was the first underground wayway in the world his job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting he continued with this job until germany declare war dad later told me that he was in france in 48 hours it was at morn's in belgian there were hundreds of men to begin with this was the first time that my dad had had had to fire a rifle to kill the battle continued for three days a lot of men were lost orders were given to retreat they retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of paris a french general realized that the leplanc of germany was weak so he commented all the taxes in paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the german's from advancing german's french and britche had started to dig their own trenches there were many casualties mr church your thought of other plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the german's battle hardened troops were put into boats and steamships the men were told to march up and down the beach they were told to fire between the legs of the enemy not directly up them however this proof futile the men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing they wore was insufficient sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed after the war dad returned to the metropolitan wayway everyone was so poor then women would see in the streets a lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river the organ grinder would be given out to tune ramsie mr donnell became the first labor prime minister but after 18 months he resigned child payments were later cut from one chilling in six months to one chilling on wheat adult payments were also reduced they followed the jarrow marches they had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from jarrow to london the jarrow march was not backed by a political party that was formed by all classes of people all people want to do was to work but there was no work available people poor people were stigmatized then just as they are stigmatized now there were soup kitchens in the schools you could smell the soup being caught we lived in a small property rent when seven chillins a week dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army the pawning of this suit was our rent money mum would pawn the suit on monday for seven chillins then get the suit back on friday mum and dapel go to the pub for a drink on sattages beer would be four pence a pint the following monday would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again the queue was always long everyone was poor then mum and dapel good parents in spite of the poverty they faced they then followed the spanish flu it was said that more people died from the flu than dead in the great war mum and dad lost twins aged three to this flu i had short trousers and jumpers but no underwear rickets and tuberculosis were rife there was no medical help for these conditions really apart from being sent to open air air hospitals i have an older sister called Dorothy and a younger sister called Margaret my younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever she was 17 funerals were paid for by the month you could be buried for eight pounds when the nash assistance came in it was 28 pounds to pay for a coffee and many people were buried in porpoise graves then i used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket i used to use the lamp post as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived i went to bridge school and w-10 i'd walk to school i love to read when i was at school in fact i learned to read by reading the bible i stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage children who weren't as confident as me would be would be given the cane a grown man given a child the grain if i pulled my hand back then i'd get another stroke i had an eyes head mistress who was very good as she would just slap me you started at standard boy but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one special need schools didn't exist then there were 43 children in my class boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls did cook in an ill work i had to be able to read the ruler if my work reached the required standard then i'd be i'd get a stamp on my card a lot of children left school without being able to read all right i met a young girl at harrow on the hillways recently she was aged about 23 or 24 she told me that she couldn't read i don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so i had gave her some money it was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgrace now teaching has changed so much from when i was a child i learned by rote i also think going to what silent movies helped me to read remember how there were bubble there was a bubble with the words in it on the screen i could read well by the time i was age seven i remembered cliff hanger and waltomilly cal bian work cal boy and western films as well as charlie chapping all his movements were to mime but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos they really made me laugh when we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard the only book we had in our house when i was a boy was the bible and a book on military law that could remember everything he read in this book he could read but he couldn't spell before my mum married dad she was living in a tide cottage with her family a father was a farm laborer mum told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbors mum used to help out there so she learned sign language i had family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s it was a Canadian Canadian model which was shipped to england there wasn't a brick on this house it had four bedrooms and i shared a bed with my brother until i was older i think that they were lucky to live in i think we were lucky to live in a nice home we had a separate bathroom and toilet there was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden we lived at number number one wembley which was by the river brent it's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us he paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege we also had 40 units of free electricity every week however a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money allies were different then the green grocery van visited the street weekly the butcher would sell all his meat late on saturday at a greatly reduced price mum used to buy tea bough and a beef we'd have a sunday rose called me on monday then on tuesday mum would make us sure everything including onions would go into the park it smelled lovely the butcher would deliver a block of ice blocks of ice regularly these blocks would be delivered wrapped in sakins keep the ice cold a van came round the street street every week selling car bollick substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses the rag and bow mannequin around every day wives used to love going out and finding a bargain when they're the rag and bow mannequin however visits were later reduced to once a week when a week when new regulations were introduced the milkman would come around with his pony every day there would be a big contains on the back of his trolley where the milk was kept women would take out their measuring jugs to fetch the milk their milk from him another my earlier memories is of a group of lads clubing together to buy this old car it had a solid it had solid rubber tyres the boys must have spent ages trying to make it roworthy another funny memory i have is a private bus company's racing to get to collect their passengers before the bus company's got there this practice came to the end after the end of after the london transport company was formed i left school at 14 and went into the engineering business i worked for waivers engineering me never me never rode wilston i didn't like this job so i left after about four months i then got a job at b8 ea wood wood wood wood wood sovereign pencil company this firm process wood from africa pencils have different woods wood is put into the solutions then into gas ovens wood was delivered by lorries it was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines the heat was turned on for 34 hours afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before before being before being taken to the world's savory factory for for pencil making i was employed there for about two years the next contribution comes from jim born 1920 i met jim at baton latimer library i i was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humor and it was a lovely place to be at baton library and sillies um so jim 1920 my mother dorothy mey karter was born in chalfonc St jiles buckleshire in 1884 my father james form was born in 1884 mum met dad once she visited pro relatives in london dad walked as a glazier i believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he he joined the army he wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived but the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead when he left the army he was kept in the army reserve dad then got taken on by the metropolitan railway at bakers street this was the first underground wayway in the world his job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting he continued with this job until jermita claire war dad later told me that he was in france in 48 hours it was at morn's in belgian there were hundreds of men to begin with this was the first time that my dad had had had had to fire a rifle to kill the battle continued for three days a lot of men were lost orders were given to retreat they retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of paris a french general realized that the laplanque of germany was weak so he commandeered all the taxes in paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the germans from advancing german's french hand which had started to dig their own trenches there were many casualties mr church your thought of other plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the germans battle hardened troops were put into boats and steamships the men were told to march up and down the beach they were told to fire between the legs of the enemy not directly at them however this proved futile the men didn't have enough supplies and the cloden their war was insufficient sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed after the war they returned to the metropolitan way away everyone was so poor then women with seeing the streets a lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river the alcome grinder would be given out to chew ramsie mukdonald became the first labor prime minister but after 18 months he resigned child payments were later cut from one chillin and six months to one chillin or wheat adult payments were also reduced they followed the jarrow marches they had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from jarrow to london jarrow march was not that by a political party that was formed by all classes of people all people wanted to do was to work but there was no work available pit poor people were stigmatized then just as they are stigmatized now there were soup kitchens in the schools you could smell the soup being caught we lived in a small property we went with seven shillings a week dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army the pawning of this suit was our rent money man would pawn the suit on men give us seven shillings then get the suit back on Friday london dabbel go to the pub for a drink on satages beer would be four pence a pint the following monday would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again the queue was always long everyone was for them london dabbel good parents in spite of the poverty they faced they then followed the spanish flu it was said that more people died from the flu than dead in the great war london dabbel lost twins aged three to this flu i had short trousers and jumpers but now underwear rickets and tuberculosis were arrived there was no medical help for these conditions really apart from being sent to open air hospitals i have an old assistant called Dorothy and a younger sister called mare my younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever she was 17 funerals were paid for by the month it could be buried for eight pounds when the national sitence came in it was 28 pounds to pay for coffee and many people were buried in porpoise graves then i used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket i used to that used a lamppost as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived i went to bridge school n w 10 i walked to school i loved to read when i was at school in fact i learned to read by reading the bible i stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage children who weren't as confident as me would be would be given the cane a grown man given a child the grain if i pulled my hand back then i'd get another stroke i had an eyes head mistress who was very good as she would just slap me you started at standard boy but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one special needs schools didn't exist then there were 43 children in my class boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls didn't cook in any work i had to be able to read the ruler if my work reached the required standard and i'd be i'd get a stamp on my card a lot of children left school without being able to read or write i met a young girl at harrow on the hillways recently she was aged about 23 or 24 she told me that she couldn't read i don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so i had gave her some money it was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgrace now teaching has changed so much from when i was a child i learned by rote i also think going to what silent movies helped me to read remember how there were bubble there was a bubble with words in it on the screen i could read well by the time i was age seven i remembered cliffhanger and walter millie calby and work calboy and western films as well as charlie chapping all his movements were to mind but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos they really made me laugh when we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard the only book we had in our house when i was a boy was the bible and a book on military law that could remember everything he read in this book he could read but he couldn't spell the format mum married dad she was living in a tight cottage with her family her father was a farm laborer one told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbors mum used to help out there so she learned sign language our family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s it was a Canadian model which was shipped to england there wasn't a brick on this house it had four bedrooms and i shared a bed with my brother until i was older i think that they were lucky to live in i think we were lucky to live in a nice home we had a separate bathroom and toilet there was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden we lived at number number one wembling which was by the river Brent it's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us he paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege we also had 40 units of free electricity every week however a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money our lives were different then the green growth we've done visited the street weekly but you would sell all his meat late on Saturday at a greatly reduced price mum used to buy tea bohannabe we'd have a sunday rose cold meat on monday then on Tuesday mum would make us chew everything including onions would go into the pot it smelled lovely the butcher would deliver a block of ice blocks of ice regularly these blocks would be delivered wrapped in sackings keep the ice cold a van came around the street street every week selling car bollocks substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses the rag and bow mannequinred around every day wives used to love going out and finding a bargain when they're the rag and bow mannequin over visits were later reduced to once a week one a week when new regulations were introduced the milkman would come around with his pony every day there would be a big contains on the back of his trolley where the milk was kept women would take out their measuring drugs to fetch the milk their milk from him another my earlier then this is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this old car it had a solid it had solid rubber tires the boys must have spent ages trying to make it roworthy another funny memory i have i have is of private bus companies racing to get to collect their passengers before the bus companies got there this practice came to the end after the end of after the london transport company was formed i left school at 14 and went into the engineering business i worked for waivers engineering me never me never rode will will has done i didn't like this job so i left after about four months i then got a job at b8ea wood royal wood royal sovereign pencil company this firm processed with from africa pencils have different words wood is put into the solution standing to gas and ovens wood was delivered by lorries it was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines the heat was turned on for 34 hours afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before before being before being taken to the world so i think factory for pencil making i was employed there for about two years at the start of the second world war i had to go for a medical checkup at actin drill hall i recall that this was near iron mongrel and oil shots the result of this was me getting a letter to post in the post to go to a private practice in windpull street i was also doing to see this doctor he even had his own x-ray machine i was given another physical examination i wasn't up to serve it's not even being a bevan boy i then worked for victoria machine tour company indoor that not actin i had been doing vertical drilling before my job was now to do drill castings making vertical drills for a milli machines it was a family firm i was there for about 32 years i was a maid redundant and was without a job for about two months my son in the world helped me to get a job at general motor's king was brief i was then forced to look around for another job and was lucky enough to find a job working at the hindsbury factory it was a good firm to work for as they had a canteen which opened from 6 30 a.m until 10 a.m then opened again from 12 until two then five until 6 30 p.m it was a factory that was open all day and night the factory was next to the grand union canal in the early days the boats even transported live turtles to make turtle soup in the same factory were women who were putting olives into jars the women were not allowed to talk they had huge barrels of vinegar also brought in on barges the factory also had its barges bringing in things like baked beans they had about six lines of beans from small to large i remember that there were half a pound of beans we'd pork that on the top mum used to buy a tin for me i recall how they used to have little lines running above where that where we worked all the tins would be moving along at these lines mr hines it was a quaker was a very generous man and had started his business in america growing horse radish etc and he would sell his produce on the markets he must have done very well doing this in 1920 came to London on a business trip with the businessmen he met bought up all his stock the factory had a doctrine five nurses to help to look after everyone there used to be five tea rooms if you started work early then you would be given a free breakfast it would be very handy for single people being able to get their meals in the factory canteen every christmas people would be given a gift every five years you were given a booklet with things that you could choose as a gift it proved very beautiful for young people who were looking at setting up home and getting married i married mrs dorning gower at williston register office in 1947 she had three boys i met her when she was working as a captain lane operator at the victoria tour company she had been living in totonham until she got bombed out we had three daughters and a son our first child was born in 1947 she now lives in bushinia watford our second daughter was born in 1949 she now lives in pent pinner our next daughter was born in december 1951 we then had a son born december 31st 1955 he lives in berten latimer i have been living in berten latimer since 1993 i had ten grandchildren my family generally come up to visit me every three or four months i was in hospital not totober for a few weeks when i was discharged i stayed with my daughter in bushin for a while my wife died a day after boxing day 1985 which also was the year that i retired she died following a heart attack i moved to berten latimer when london berten was too dangerous to remain we had been burgled twice and two house bricks had been thrown through the windows i had an elder brother who lived in her harrow his wife had died i would go and visit him and neither moved in with me i love her and it feels free from crime we know muggings are stealing of cars i still love trees and love to visit the library so do i gin a really lovely and welcoming place i live from day to day now i love to talk to all the people who live there i would say that there are an awful lot of transient people living here i met bloke a few years ago who told me how he had a distinguished conduct medal he said his last operation was to free christmas on before on the borders of poland instead when they had polished the german guards off it was tea time he said to them isn't it about time you went home this man drank man's pale in brown ale which made me decide that i would like to sit next to him we belong to the rac club i think that they built five of five apartments there that's the end of um jim's story but another really obviously valuable one on some of our names included marbaric eb et correspondent mrs main then mrs bollard mr weekly who had two daughters and a son we lived in the same house until i was 14 went to find an infiscore which is now the junior school then onto welling burrow road which later became a secondary school i remember that the head past was a captain certain also remembered asking around the pay maypole and the may queen being crowned i went to sunday school about what in now dr spencer's house and the boys went to the boy school we sometimes had to go to church from sunday school when i think about how many shots were used to have there was a big change there was mr cox's general store on the corner well the health center is across the road in the square there was a water pump and two massive stones beside it everyone who had horses etc used to use it mr york the blacksmith as well as mr dawson at premises in wild street i remember mr dawson beating the anvil and singing at the top of his voice he was really pleasant my parents had a small hold in june the war and i worked for my dad in flaps to road he kept all manner of things including pigs calves hens rabbit dogs and cats in those days people were registered with us for x the police called every month to ensure everything was legitimate i enjoyed doing this work there were two stone cottages and chamber is that chamberlings lived in one where halephax is now was a sweet shop owned by mr gallop he was a really big man he sold bottle sweets with every sort and chocolate and i i remember him as being really nice i remember the houses in his forcrescent being built mainly many of them by marimid marriets was bertjards father built son she ended it that story we move on to miss wilson i was born here in 1918 and went to malso infant school then the girls june is cool and then back to malso school i had one brother and one sister my dad worked as a shoe operative at the co-op which was then at the bottom of oblisk road we always respected our parents and i feel that we had good parents we had to go to sunday school and i was a sunday school teacher later on we always had a week or seaside every year after church and during my teenage years a group of us would walk to find and station a few trains would stop there at that time i had happy days at sunday school and a treat would be a parade around finding afterward there'll be sports and station road the old prize prize brass band played in the evenings and mr remington was the conductor my time in the entertainment society started in the jr dancing group and i belonged to this for a number of years again these were very happy times mum stayed at home to care for us and this was the usual thing to be doing those days very few women went out to work during the war i was a member of the women's land arby and i used to be up and at work work by six thirty and during harvest time we would be working until late in the evening i enjoyed the land army and i felt i was doing my bit for the country we used to keep hands to supplement our living when war was declared we carried gas masks to sunday school and they were kept in a cardboard square box and remember planes going over when commentary was bombed find an entertainment church find an entertainment church sunday school was resumed after the war to try and build things up again first cuz was band used to play down at the star hall every thursday night we used to play badminton in the star hall we used to go to pictures in well in brawn and sat his night buses ran much later in those days i feel that payments were much tighter in those days in letter and litter is much more of a problem now it is sad to see shops close in here traffic is heavier now and i feel that we could really do with a bypass i would far rather keep our town as it is than build houses on our outskirts i think that we have a good variety of things happening including over 60s darby and jone brownies rainbows tindy and entertainment society rumblers town was women's guilds women's institute cricket club football club darts teams british legion tennis club keep fit yoga like lion dancing pilates and and st john ambulance the next person i spoke to was kit jois born actually no kit jois 1915 my father's name was her but edward and my mother was called elizabeth jane they were born at oni father was a shoemaker with a workshop in the back garden and he worked for mansfield shoes aventon part north unton he used to make our shoes for us before marrying i think that mum was in service in london lucy was the youngest and then konnie now and there were four boys archie bold ron jack and ted i went to the council school high street oni the oldest sister looked after the young ones and i think that i went to school when i was five i caught the bus from oni told it ideal clothes in wellingborough when i was 15 and i was employed as a machinist making men's waist waistcoats i served in the apprenticeship and went from 7 30 a.m until 30 30 p.m and i earned hillings a week i met my future husband frank who was on a press at the ideal and he came from binder we married at only church when i was 23 and then moved to findin and have lived here in the same house since then i think that it cost us about 350 pounds brian was born in 95 1945 p to september 1946 then after nine years we had elizabeth jane they all started up by going to schools in binder when brian left on into road grammar school he became a mining engineer mainly working in the middle east africa peter went to archie bersett jimod school before going to on to weave a technical college he later went to whole university and became a teacher teaching science i think jane also went into a higher education studying at last stop and became a teacher now working locally in a school teaching english brian had two children two sons peter have one son called adam and they live in chal chalm's food and adam is about 17 now brian lives in south wales i stopped for work for some time when i had my children then went to work for ideal which is where i think i met my very good friend peggy stevens from misfield cressant i think that though that i also got to know her through the children mainly gale as a way of making ends me i used to knit and so fadley later went to work at alimaspur and latimer as a foundry man and he would come home quite shuttered at the tea time i would say that i was a home bird really i met orgy's husband paul ellis who also went to wellen bergamma school in about 1962 paul used to come over from wellen bergam and i went out they used to roll up the carpets and get out the records as their parties were right a real scream paul would always clean up afterwards and it would be spick and spank and when we got back we used to have a black and white wide haired dog called pooch who was a friendly little animal i sadly lost frank some years ago about 20 i've had to come to terms with his loss now of course but still miss him and can still see him in my mind's eye in his chair the following work contributor was roma pears born 1918 father conrad ran a mother edith elisa elidia both of high wickham father worked as a foreman for a furniture maker whilst my mother worked as a push chair worker making the seats my grandfather used to make wings of chairs he would engrave his initials on the bottom of the chair my uncle was a head gardener for benjamin disraeli also had a sister-in-law who was a seamstress dressmaker for a duchess i had two cousins who worked on the winds of castle estate also had a sister who lived until she was under until she was a hundred there i attended priory school road board school this was an elementary school which was run by professional people like doctors nurses and professors i didn't like school as i was terribly shy i worked on a press in the laundry factory having left school at the age of 14 however when war broke out our work there changed dramatically the government replaced and then stored away all the laundry machinery and placed it with and replaced it with machinery for making telephone cords and cables for the navy army and raf i carried out this work for six years you weren't allowed to give noges and leave unless you were ill or having a baby after the end of the war the government brought back all of the machines of course the original people were still there but i didn't stay i met a boy when i was age 17 he was living with his mother who i just who had separated from my husband she moved to the seaside so of course i saw my boyfriend move with her we had corresponded for a couple of years he then wrote to me and told me that he had fallen in love with another girl this was before the war when war broke out he joined the raf and was initially stationed at high wickham i met Ronald Pearce and i met Ronald Pearce and after six months we married in 1937 he was from tackling their jerets cross it was a supervisor for gi furniture gi phillip gi plan furniture he had been in the parachute regiment in France during the war and was wooded in the temple it was a serious injury of course the surgeon who carried out the operation told my husband sometime later they had he had operated on ten of the men with similar head injuries but that my husband was the only one who had survived as it was he was still affected by this injury but managed to live a successful life he was a devout Christian the surgeon hadn't expected him to live for more than three or four years he studied his bible and went preaching and was able to use his brain it affected him in his attitude it made him strict we used to move about every seven years and ended up in stony's stratford i worked as a cab advisor there and i loved it at the age of 50 i began to work in a christian bookshop i loved books so this was the perfect job for me and fortunately the bookshop was bought out by another company i was kept on and was in charge of ordering books and this gave me confidence my husband died ten years ago from a very rare disease we have one girl and two boys two Ian is a traveling salesman for a dog charity he had previously worked for a sales charity helping widows of men who i drowned at sea he now travels all over the country our other son owns a watch repair shop this is in milton keens we have seven grandchildren Sylvia has three children while Simon Simon has two children he has married he isn't married to a filipino lady he is married to a blacked african and they have two children but child's i was born in mill room wellingborough in 1911 my dad was a builder of my mother a housewife we moved to find an in 1921 and we lived in wellingborough where birds and blooms are now i learned the apprenticeship skills of building on my pay was five shillings for the first two years of my apprenticeship i then spent two years as an improve prover and my pay increased to two by two shillings i left school at 14 and qualified when i was 20 i had to pay for my own clothes with the money i earned i went to wellingborough college three nights a week after working during the day i studied building quantities general building and mass we had a gang of builders in wellingborough on land where minishu factory had stood the factory was burnt down when i was about 17 we were responsible for building a number of properties including an avenue road council yard tensor lane a six garage houses near the warm and memorial ultra in hellgrange farm in jim also work on lime tree end maintenance work on finding hall shops for good men's front of the co-op shop for mrs. arnie and aller road inferts school in 1937 for 10 000 pounds parlour houses in israel crescent hawthorn road bungalows in european field road and air raid shelters in mock road there used to be six butchers here and i think that shelters had two butchers they owned a slaughterhouse it house in regent street i recall that standing in the personal lived at lime tree end i think that they had bought find and hall as an ecological passes retreat it stood empty and deteriorating for years and grange farm or time memories i remember making blackout frames when chamberly indicaa bore september 1939 we used packing case lining and chamberlym and we put heavy line curtains at the windows we used to have air raid wardens walking mounds telling you off if you spoke to segret in the street i was first stationed at in venice lord lavett's castle and was in the world engineers i worked at liver pustry dot directing the car guys to where it should go this was in our training days i remember june the eight d-day two on the land in of infantry craft from the new haven where we were sta- what station waiting for the invasion at armor meddias where the morgue harbor was we were forced to raid up to our next and onto the shore we then had to walk for several kilometers through september of tat tat tat where landed already been checked for bombs when we eventually got to camp we had to make our own billots whilst our clothes dried on us i was then in a party that went on to rottodam we were at bristles when 4800 flying bombs were dropped and i dived when the billots were blasted there was glass everywhere mayvis collins daughter put together all the all of the stories much more on created a small book titles are we all a little blind to be shared in the hope of giving everyone an insight into nann's remarkable life continuation with harry harry was also very adept at mending clocks and many a time their clock would strike in the front room followed by a Westminster chime to ring in out in the kitchen he also repaired various electrical goods toasters vacuum cleaner science etc and he was always the first port of call for relations and neighbors before taking them to a shop his only problem was he was unable to see the color of the wires so it needed the help of a sighted person if the occasional rose from the age of 10 he also taught mayvis how to mend a fuse in an electric box so that if it blew at any time and he was not around to mend it nann would not have to sit in the cold as their house was heated by electricity when she was older he was involved in whatever he was doing carpentry electrics chaircaning etc though she had a basic training in lots of practical skills which would come in very useful in later life harry tried various treatments to restore his eyesight and in 1953 he underwent a cornea operation on his left eye which was a failure in 1969 he had 17 days of injections trying a new drug to no avail in 1972 he went and went a cataract operation after which he was informed nothing could be done as he had damaged corneas and had problems with the retina as well as the eye disease intestinal keratitis harry's harry's eye scarpades whilst returning home from work one day harry had to cross a very busy dual carriageway always having to wait for someone to take him across on this occasion he was carrying a bunch of will okayings and on reaching the grass island in the middle of the dual carriageway the gentleman suddenly let go of his arm and disappeared harry knowing just how dangerous the road was remained where he was calling out for some assistance and man then got older his arm asking if he was okay and harry then a realtor to the man what had happened i didn't i hope he didn't think i needed to blunt these here holding out his bunch of willows i think he must have seen his bus coming to which the man replied yes mate he did but he won't be going very far because i'm the driver haven't seen what had happened he had got out of his cab and went to harry's aid one christmas having gone to the angel market islinton to purchase a duck for dinner he climbed to the upper deck of the bus duck held in front of him to be confronted by a woman on the way down mind me duck says he never mind your duck i'm trying to find something to stick up the arse of mind was harry plowing on reaching the upper deck harry found himself and ducking tangled in a rather large christmas tree which someone had positioned at the top of the stairs needless to say by the time he got home the duck was rather the worst for wear harry was always up for a job for a joke and why's it work one afternoon a faith he in a court at the workshop preaching that he could restore the sight of the man they refused to see him but instead instead sent down one of the chaps who did not have any eyes thus having a good laugh at because healers expense expands married life nan married mary james Bradley harry and they moved into a ground floor flat 196 lordship lane a few doors along from the rest of her family when expecting her first child iris in 1932 she applied to become a home worker home was duly checked out to see whether it was suitable for a machine and that is when she was alone the harryson circular knitter conditions attached were that you had to earn at these five shillings a week and the middle of sex counter council would make it up to ten chillings you were sent six pounds of wool in the bag the wall was in a skein which had then had to be waxed and wound on the bobbins free pair of socks returned at the end of the week received five pence but if any were not up to standard they will return without payments the toes were left open if you didn't if you didn't manage to achieve your five shillings you were not paid later you then had to complete socks payment then was 10 people a pair and then to earn 10 shillings a week with the middle sex counter council all meant in another tension lens time taking to machine a pair of socks was an hour of open toes and a half an hour and a half the clothes ones when the second world war began home workers were asked to get their own sock orders war could still be obtained from swiss cottage workshop and the middle sex county council paid still still pay the old augmentation harry had been seconded in 1937 to work at the initial town company city road repairing all their laundry baskets any of time many orders from the colleagues working there and from then on nan never had to work the swiss cottage again at the start of the war nan and iris were evacuated again he or Lincoln she stand once again on the farm i had been talking to a lorry driver in a cafe and he was telling him he did the peter burr running he would take them along with many others at that time as it was feared that london was in the front line for a bombing attack the circular machine was loaded on the back of a lorry along with iris bicycle they that they made the uncomfortable journey in the tub lily and daughter Sheila followed in another lorry arriving in peter burr the driver dropped them at aunt and is this this being wednesday he told them he would come then at the next strategy to take them on to get nihil in his own cars the lorry had to be returned to the yard and he had run out of time this he did james henry bradley harry born 18th of january 1907 that st paul's road st pankras london later moving to red hill street regent's part london harry was the oldest of five children in 1980 his mother contracted the flow as there was one as there was no one to look after them harry along with sister dolly was sent to at the workhouse that leaves to nihil Watford for a month until their mother was able to look after them again he attended the church school until he was 11 years old one Friday his site deteriorated and by the money he was unable to see he was taken into hospital and smothered in mercury wrapped from head to foot in bandages and kept like this for four weeks the idea was to penetrate the blood system he came out of hospital in january and had no more schooling until he was 13 years old when he was then registered blind going first to breakknock school and later to london lodge residential school until he was 16 having some extra instruction in basket weaving and chair came in his vision fluctuated enormously and at the beginning of 1923 was de certified this left him in limbo not enough not enough sight to work in a sighted place and too much for the blind workshops however by the end of 1923 he was re certified and begun a four-year basket making training course at the end of 1927 27 which he was again de certified so once again he was in limbo he managed to get a job as a basket worker instructor in parts Portsmouth this lasted for two years having to return to london and unable to obtain any work he decided enough was enough he then possessed perpested the authorities london county council to let him work in the blind workshops they still refused to reinstate him so he stood outside county hall with his boots in tatas and a placard hung around his neck until they relented on the proviso that a doctor stated that he would eventually lose his sight in 1930 he started work at Greenwich workshops he was then living in come down town so it was quite a long journey during this year harry met nan a monthly dance held at Swiss cottage workshops in keelburn they had previously known one another briefly at breckknock school while while caught in they visited harry's brother in hospital deciding to take nan for a drink afterwards they entered a pub or so they thought harry requested the drinks to which the man replied sorry mate no one will treat you to a pint here you're in the undertakers the pub's next door so much for making a good impression in 1931 he exchanged work exchange with a work colleague and went to work at Swiss cottage which was much nearer to home from 1937 to 47 he worked at the initial tower company and from 1947 to 53 return once again to Swiss cottage workshops the journey then became too much for him as his site and also his hearing was deteriorating quite rapidly so he then transferred to Tottenham court road where he remained until he retired in 1974 in later life he became profoundly deaf which he found to be more of a problem than his blindness as it isolated him from many conversations which would have he would have previously made with people it continued working at home making baskets and chaircaining and repaired or replaced the seats on numerous chairs many from the house of lords and the house of commons many of famous bottom may well have graced his seats on one occasion a Rolls Royce was seen parked outside their council house the neighbors were really inquisitive the chauffeur haven't taken the chair for repair inside saw Nanna her machine on returning to the car he related what he had seen to lord we don't know when they returned to collect the chair both the chauffeur and lord went into the house where Nanna demonstrated how to make a make a sock on the machine he then purchased a couple of pairs before leaving these are some of the stories for life as a totally blind wife a mother bringing up two children coping with running at home and taking care also of husband a husband who was similarly disabled were ribbed into an almost inspirational degree to quote but one of dozens of overly she came into the show with what when she was an out when she announced that she had just finished taking her knitting machine to pieces to affect her repair this from a 97 year old blind since childhood and you imagine it new and i imagine sometimes that we have had problems thank you marm you meant so much and gave so much pleasure to so many people are most particularly to me to have encountered you if only by way of a radio program was to become a rare privilege indeed we should spend love mbe but you represent a bb south bpc south and east of england the poem that follows with written for Nanna on her 90th birthday by her friend eileen who went blind later in life i'm sure you'll agree it gives us all through to the thought happy birthday to you nann who's never never seen the light but i have never heard a moment whatever's been her plight with her dancing and her happy face she's been god's gift to me i felt so sorry for myself one first i could not see i know of people in this world who have the gift of sight but never lift that ever lift their eyes to sky as a blaze with light i have not known them very long but long enough to find a world of so full of happiness are we all a little blind perhaps we need to think about that one the next contribution comes from jim born in 1920 i met jim at berten latimer library i i was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humor and it was a lovely place to be at berten library and sillies um so jim 1920 my mother dorothy mey karter was born in chalfont st jiles buckingham chair in 1884 my father james form was born in 1884 mum met dad when she visited her relatives in london dad worked as a glazier i believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he he joined the army he wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived but the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead when he left the army he was kept in the army reserve dad then got taken on by the metropolitan railway at bakers street this was the first underground wayway in the world his job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting he continued with this job until germany declared war dad later told me that he was in france in 48 hours it was at morn's in belgium there were hundreds of men to begin with this was the first time that my dad had heber had to fire a rifle to kill the battle continued for three days a lot of men were lost orders were given to retreat they retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of paris a french general realized that the left plank of germany was weak so he commandeered all the taxes in paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the german's from advancing german's french hand britche had started to dig their own trenches there were many casualties mr church your thought of of a plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the german's battle hardened troops were put into boats and steamships the men were told to march up and down the beach they were told to fire between the legs of the enemy not directly at them however this proof futile the men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing they wore was insufficient sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed after the war they returned to the metropolitan wayway everyone was so poor then women were singing the streets a lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river the organ grinder would be given out of tune ramsie mcdonald became the first labor prime minister but after 18 months he resigned child payments were later cut from one chilling in six months to one chilling on wheat adult payments were also reduced they followed the jerry marches they had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from jerry to london the jerry march was not backed by a political party but was formed by all classes of people all people want to do was to work but there was no work available pit poor people were stigmatized then just as they are stigmatized now there were soup kitchens in the schools you could smell the soup being caught we lived in a small property the rent went seven chillins a week dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army the pawning of this suit was our rent money men would pawn the suit on men divish seven chillins then get suit back on friday mam and dabel go to the pub for a drink on sattages be it would be four pence a pint the following mandy would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again the queue was always long everyone was poor then mam and dabel good parents in spite of the poverty they faced they then followed the spanish flu it was said that more people died from the flu than did in the great war mam and dad lost twins age three to this flu i had short trousers and jumpers but now underwear rickets and tuberculosis were rife there was no medical help for these conditions really apart from being sent to open air air hospitals i have an older sister called Dorothy and a younger sister called Margaret my younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever she was 17 funerals were paid for by the month you could be buried for eight pounds when the national assistance came in it was 28 pounds to pay for a coffee and many people were buried in paufas graves then i used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket i used to use the lamppost as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived i went to bridge school and w 10 i'd walk to school i love to read when i was at school in fact i learned to read by reading the bible i stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage children who weren't as confident as me would be would be given the cane a grown man given a child the crane if i pulled my hand back then i'd get another stroke i had an ice head mystery so it was very good as she would just slap me you started at standard bwam but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one special need schools didn't exist then there were 43 children in my class boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls did cooking and ill work i had to be able to read the ruler if my work reached the required standard then i'd be i'd get a stamp on my card a lot of children left school without being able to read or write i met a young girl at harrow on the hillways recently she was aged about 23 or 24 she told me that she couldn't read i don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so i had gave her some money it was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgrace now teaching has changed so much from when i was a child i learned by rote i also think going to what silent movies helped me to read remember how there were bubble there was a bubble with the words in it on the screen i could read well by the time i was age seven i remembered cliff hanger and waltomelli cal bian work cal boy on western films as well as charlie chapping all his movements were to mime but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos they really made me laugh when we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard the only book we had in our house when i was a boy was the bible and a book on military law that could remember everything he read in this book he could read but he couldn't spell before mum married dad she was living in a tide cottage with her family a father was a farm laborer mum told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbors mum used to help out there so she learned sign language our family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s it was a commandant Canadian model which was shipped to england there wasn't a brick on this house it had four bedrooms and i shared a bed with my brother until i was older i think that they were lucky to live in i think we were lucky to live in a nice home we had a separate bathroom and toilet there was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden we lived at number number one wembley which was by the river brendt it's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us he paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege we also had 40 units of free electricity every week however a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent rent money our lives were different then the green grocery bar and visit the street weekly the butcher would sell all his meat late on saturday at a greatly reduced price mum used to buy tea bonabine we'd have a sunday rose called me on monday then on tuesday mum would make us chew everything including onions would go into the pot it smelled lovely the butcher would deliver a block of ice blocks of ice regularly these blocks would be delivered wrapped in sacking to keep the ice cold a van came round the street street every week selling car bollocks substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses the rag and bow manne called around every day wives used to love going out and finding a bargain when there were the rag and bow man called however visits were later reduced to once a week one a week when new regulations were introduced the milkman would come around with his pony every day there would be a big contains on the back of his trolley where the milk was kept women would take out their measuring jugs to fetch the milk their milk from him another my earlier memories is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this old car it had a solid it had solid rubber tyres the boys must have spent ages trying to make it road worthy another funny memory i have i have is of private bus companies racing to get to collect their passengers before the bus companies got there this practice came to the end after the end of after the london transport company was formed i left school at 14 and went into the engineering business i worked for waivers engineering me never me never rode will's willstone i didn't like this job so i left after about four months i then got a job at b8 ea wood royal wood royal sovereign pencil company this firm processed wood from africa pencils have different words wood is put into the solutions then into gas ovens wood was delivered by lorries it was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines the heat was turned on for 34 hours afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before being before being taken to the world's savory factory for pencil making i was employed there for about two years the next contribution comes from jim born 1920 i met jim at baton latima library i i was impressed by his liveliness and his bright mind and his brilliant sense of humor uh and it was a lovely place to be at baton library and silliness um so jim 1920 my mother dorothy mey karter was born in chalfonc Saint jiles fucking shet in 1884 my father james form was born in 1884 mum met dad when she visited parallelities in london dad walked as a glazier i believe he got himself in a bit of trouble when he was a young man but to avoid a brief spelling prison he joined the army he wanted to join the cavalry because he had been working in stables close to where he lived but the recruitment sergeant decided he should join the infantry instead when he left the army he was kept in the army reserve dad then got taken on by the metropollet mr railway at bakers street this was the first underground wayway in the world his job was to maintain the buildings mainly painting he continued with this job until jim knee declare war dad lata told me that he was in france in 48 hours he was at morn's in belgian there were hundreds of men to begin with this was the first time that my dad had ever had to fire a rifle to kill the battle continued for three days a lot of men were lost orders were given to retreat they retreated for 14 days until they were on the outskirts of paris a french general realized that the lap plan for germany was weak so he commandeered all the taxes in paris to be filled with infantry men aiming to prevent the german's from advancing german's french hand which had started to dig their own trenches there were many casualties mr church your thought of other plan to attack by going through the diagonals in order to attack the german's battle hardened troops were put into boats and steamships the men were told to march up and down the beach they were told to fire between the legs of the enemy not directly at them however this proof of futile the men didn't have enough supplies and the clothing their war was insufficient sometimes two or three men from the same family would be killed after the war dad returned to the metropolitan way away everyone was so poor then women were seen in the streets a lot of men were sleeping on benches near the river the augum grinder would be given out to chew ramsie mukdonal became the first labor prime minister but after 18 months he resigned child payments were later cut from one chilling in the six months to one chilling aren't we adult payments were also reduced they followed the jarrow marches they had to pass a medical before they were allowed to join the march from jarrow to london jarrow march was not that by a political party but was formed by all classes of people all people want to do was to work but there was no work available people were stigmatized then just as they are stigmatized now there were soup kitchens in the schools you could smell the soup being caught we lived in a small property we went with seven shillings a week dad had been supplied with a blue surge suit after he was discharged from the army the pawning of this suit was our rent money man would pawn the suit on monday to seven shillings then get the suit back on friday mam and dapal go to the pub for a drink on sattages beer would be four pence a pint the following monday would see them back in the queue to pawn the suit again the queue was always long everyone was for them mam and dapal good parents in spite of the poverty they faced they then followed the spanish flu it was said that more people died from the flu than dead in the great war mam and dad lost twins aged three to this flu i had short trousers and jumpers but now underwear rickets and tuberculosis were arrived there was no medical help for these conditions really apart from being sent to open air hospitals i have an older sister called dorothy and a younger sister called marera my younger sister died in 1941 of rheumatic fever she was 17 funerals were paid for by the month it could be buried for eight pounds when the nash assistance came in it was 28 pounds to pay for a coffee and many people were buried in porpoise graves then i used to play a lot of street games as a boy such as marbles and cricket i used to use the lamppost as cricket stumps but would run into the house when the press arrived i went to bridge school and w-tane i walked to school i loved to read when i was at school in fact i learned to read by reading the bible i stand at the front of the class and deliver the passage children who weren't as confident as me would be would be given the cane a grown man given a child the grain if i pulled my hand back then i get another stroke i had an ice head mistress who was very good as she would just slap me you started at standard boy but wouldn't move to the next until next standard until you were proficient at level one special need schools didn't exist then there were 43 children in my class boys didn't see any school would do carpentry whilst the girls didn't cook in any work i have to be able to read the ruler if my work reached the required standard then i'd be i'd get a stamp on my card a lot of children left school without being able to read or write i met a young girl at harrow on the hillways recently she was aged about 23 or 24 she told me that she couldn't read i don't think she had enough money to pay for her trade there so i had gave her some money it was a disgrace that children left school without being able to read then just as it is disgrace now teaching has changed so much from when i was a child i learned by rote i also think going to what silent movies helped me to read remember how there were bubble there was a bubble with words in it on the screen i could read well by the time i was age seven i remembered cliff hannah and walter millie calby and work calboy and western films as well as charlie chapping all his movements were to mind but you could also buy small films when they were shifting pianos they really made me laugh when we were living in the first house we bought the evening standard the only book we had in our house when i was a boy was the bible and a book on military law that could remember everything he read in this book he could read but he couldn't spell before my mum married dad she was living in a tight cottage with her family her father was a farm laborer one told me how they had deaf and dumb people as neighbors mum used to help out there so she learned sign language our family moved into a lovely council house in the early 30s it was a Canadian model which was shipped to england there wasn't a pre-conlet this house it had four bedrooms and i shared a bed with my brother until i was older i think that they were lucky to live in i think we were lucky to live in a nice home we had a separate bathroom and toilet there was a 19 foot front garden and a 24 back garden we lived at number number one wembling which was by the river brent it's funny looking back but there was this chap who had a big garden in us he paid a penny a week extra rent money for this privilege we also had 40 units of free electricity every week however a third of dad's wages would be taken in rent money our lives were different then the green grocery farm visited the street weekly the poor children said all is meat late on saturday at a greatly reduced price mum used to buy tea boh and a beef we'd have a sunday rose called me on monday then on tuesday mum would make us chew everything including onions would go into the park it smelled lovely the butcher would deliver a block of ice blocks of ice regularly these blocks would be delivered wrapped in sacking to keep the ice cold a van came around the street street every week selling car bollocks substance which was used to keep everything clean in the houses the rag and bow man and cord around every day wives used to love going out and finding a bargain when they're with the rag and bow man cord over visits were later reduced to once a week one of it when new regulations were introduced the milkman would come around with his pony every day there would be a big contains on the buck of his trolley where the milk was kept women would take out their measuring jugs to fetch the milk their milk from him another my earlier then this is of a group of lads clubbing together to buy this old car it had a solid it had solid rubber tires the boys must have spent ages trying to make it roberty another funny memory i have i have is a private bus company's race and to get to collect their passengers before the bus company's got there this practice came to the end after the end of after the london transport company was formed i left school at 14 and went into the engineering business i worked for waivers engineering me never me never rode wilston i didn't like this job so i left after about four months i then got a job at b8 ea wood royal wood rural sovereign pencil company this firm processed wood from africa pencils have different woods wood is put into the solution standing to gas and ovens wood was delivered by lorries it was pushed into sheet metal sheds where it was stored in metal holders containing a solution and then put into gas machines the heat was turned on for 34 hours afterwards it was put into brick built ovens and then before being before being before being taken to the bowl of soft red factory for pencil making i was employed there for about two years at the start of the second world war i had to go for a medical checkup at actin drill hall i recall that this was near iron mongre and oil shots the result of this was me getting a letter to post in the post to go to a private practice in windpull street i was also doing to see this doctor he even had his own x-ray machine i was given another physical examination i wasn't up to service not even being a bevan boy i then worked for victoria machine tour company indoor that north actin i had been doing vertical drilling before my job was now to do drill castings making vertical drills for milli machines it was a family firm i was there for about 32 years i was a maid redundant and was without a job for about two months my son in law helped me to get a job at general motor's king was brief i was then forced to look around for another job and was lucky enough to find a job working at the hinds berry factory it was a good firm to work for as they had a canteen which opened from 6 30 a.m until 10 a.m then opened again from 12 until two then five until 6 30 p.m it was a factory that was open all day and night the factory was next to the grand union canal in the early days the boats even transported live turtles to make turtle suit in the same factory were women who were putting olives into jars the women were not allowed to talk they had huge barrels of vinegar also brought in on barges the factory also had its barges bringing in things like baked beans they had about six lines of beans from small to large i remember that there were half a pound tins of beans we'd porked about on the top mum used to buy a tin for me i recall how they used to have little lines running above where that where we worked all the tins would be moving along at these lines mr hines who was a quaker was a very generous man and had started his business in america growing horse radish etc and he would sell his produce on the markets he must have done very well doing this in 1920 he came to London on a business trip with the businessmen he met bought up all his stock the factory had a doctrine five nurses to help to look after everyone there used to be five tea rooms if you started work early then you would be given a free breakfast it would be very handy for single people being able to get their meals in the factory canteen every christmas people would be given a gift every five years you were given a booklet with things that you could choose as a gift it proved very beautiful for young people who were looking at setting up home and getting married i married mrs dorning gower at williston register office in 1947 she had three boys i met her when she was working as a captain lane operator at the victoria tour company she had been living in totterham until she got bombed out we had three daughters and a son our first child was born in 1947 she now lives in bushinia watford our second daughter was born in 1949 she now lives in pent pinner our next daughter was born in december 1951 we then had a son born december 31st 1955 he lives in berten latimer i have been living in berten latimer since 1993 i had ten grandchildren my family generally come up to visit me every three or four months i was in hospital not tober for a few weeks when i was discharged i stayed with my daughter in bushin for a while my wife died a day after boxing day 1985 which also was the year that i retired she died following a heart attack i moved to berten latimer when london berten was too dangerous to remain we had been burgled twice and two house bricks had been thrown through the windows i had an elder brother who lived in harrow his wife had died i would go and visit him and neither moved in with me i love her and it feels free from crime we know muggings are stealing of cars i still love trees and love to visit the library so do i jin a really lovely and welcoming place i live from day to day now i love to talk to all the people who live there i would say that there are an awful lot of transient people living here i met bloke a few years ago who told me how he had a distinguished conduct medal he said how his last operation was to free britain's arm before on the borders of poland in steating when they had polished the german guards off it was tea time he said to them isn't it about time you went home this man drank man's pale in brown ale which made me decide that i would like to sit next to him we belong to the rac club i think that they built five apartments there that's the end of um jim's story but another really obviously valuable one my next contributor is margarita her book book born 1920 dad was a farmer bradley's farm was a warding field near sudbury suffered my mum had been in this district nurse before she married mum was born in 1884 she was one of 14 and she had a twin sister father was born in 1882 he owned a small holding at sudbury he served in the first world war but he didn't talk about it i remember however finding the post-gut that he must have sent to mum it had a picture of a nurse saying i'm very weak can i lean on you please nurse i had an older brother and a younger brother i went to the council school at sudbury i left left school at the age of 14 mum died four days after my 14th birthday upon leaving school i helped dad on the farm local people were employed to help us when i was about 17 the daughter of the gatekeeper who lived next door asked me if i was interested in a job of a kitchen maid at a big house which was a few miles away i found it to be hard work we had to be in the kitchen at 6 30 a.m i did the scrubbing of the kitchen floors and the work tops we seldom saw the actual family i had half a day a week and one sunday in a month off i used to cycle home which was 10 miles away every week of course we used to cycle everywhere we only used to have two hours off in the afternoon and then we would be back in the kitchen again there would be shooting parties etc to cater for we used to climb into our beds exhausted by about 10 o'clock we didn't have bedrooms but instead interfeitle cubicles in a big room i got on well with the rest of the staff say that programs we watch on the television are glamorised more than what life was really like the people were in service then i had two or three similar jobs when more broke out i volunteered for munitions i finished a battlefield aircraft battery where i was in on inspections it was my job to inspect the riveting the riveting i also proof loaded which meant examining cables which had a link at the end i was belitted at workford we were lucky in that we only have one bomb which landed on us nearest i was at the same same job until i got married was it and was introduced to my boyfriend William Lawrence by his cousin who worked the same factory as me he had served in the desert and he used to say i had to have sand with everything we married made the 22nd 1948 in box for supper near where my father and brother lived i hide my wedding dress i was lucky to have a cake as my dad's sister run a bakery we had three sons born in 1948 51 and 58 when my sons were at school i was employed as a classroom assistant at Christchurch school london i was either doing playground duty or taking the little milk bottles of milk around to have a classroom i used to love that job i live with my oldest son and his wife in ron's now one son lives in london the other in shrozby and now i love to knit squares for blankets i love to do crosswords and puzzles i'm going on holiday with my son next week olef jervis i was born at home to mother Annie and father edward leadham father was born in Birmingham in 1895 and mum was born the same year dad worked for york's cutting soles for children's shoes before going to work at a shoe factory at the bottom sheep's street mum was employed by chamberlands which was a slipper factory in pork road she later worked for gents where she made gloves when dad wasn't working he would be busy with his allotment or working in his garden the garden field was in Chester road it was our job every sunday to go and pick the vegetables for sunday dinner mum was had a cut of brisket which she would boil we then take it to the bakers in winstonley road where where he actually put in would be cooked around it my brother's job was to take a job to the off license in new common road where there were fetch of pinta beer sometimes they'd have a sip so there would add water to the top of the jug up again as soon as they got home dad used to drive us to go to near yarma for our annual holidays which stay in an apartment mum still had to shop and then do all the cooking though i left school age 14 and what in the factory i just liked this i was later caught up to work as a nursing auxiliary i'd been a member of st john's ambulance in wellingborough after six weeks training at north outton general hospital i returned to isebut hospital i was later posted to a convalescent home at wink hill stapper chair i had to go to north stavs rehabilitation to learn how to help dress the disabled and treat the army treat army boys from all over the place i actually made a date with one of the boys i was nursing i wondered why he didn't turn up i later turned learn the reason was when a young man who later became my husband joe had worn this young man off he told him how he planned to marry me joe was discharged but returned to see me used to stay in the village one night i asked the night nurse to leave the back door and lot but she must have forgotten and locked it joe started to throw stones up what he thought was her window it was in fact the matrons window i blushed like anything when i heard her complaining the following morning what a bad storm there must have been in the night i was on leave when wellingborough was brought dropped was bombed one bomb dropped near all saints jr school another was dropped near the crown and anchor and another near the police station in midland road i was working at isebut hospital then i dropped rice pudding that i was feeding someone with all over the place i was really scared we heard the bands when Coventry was being bombed the bomber planes flew over wellingborough the sky lit up we had to carry babies one in each arm down concrete steps all the babies from my book were taken to st mary's hospital at ketchup i was scared of dropping the baby so i decided to carry only one baby at a time when the all clear siren was sounded we came up again i married joe all saints church wellingborough the war had finished by then i was still at stoke everyone was joyous the hall all went to we went to was packed i remember listening to records like i'll be with you in apple blossom time and strings of pearls of course i were not war and nurses uniform which included black stockings we kept a pair in our dog dormitory for any of us to use i got on really well with the other girls we just supported each other we worked from eight in the morning until five at night with two and a half days off we nurses were lucky in that we had tens of fruit from south africa we also ate rice pudding every day i soon got fed up of rice pudding though if we were off on sundays we'd take the injured men to the morning service in the private church i think it was owned by a lord roth child i borrowed a wedding dress from a colleague my dad bought a chocolate wedding cape for me whilst matron made a two-tier ice cape as was the that was the tradition i saved one allen was born on the march on march of 14th following year i was 25 and jose was 29 we couldn't get a council house we live with my parents allen was almost two before we got an all-it house it was lovely of course to have a house of our own but it was very it was so very cold so we sorted our extra heat in ourselves joe had bronchitis every year joe is by now working at greek's at wollaston he's to do the stunts on golf shoes i remember that they're all colors and really and really bright and of good quality when joe lived in stokey stokey worked in the pottery industry making plates his job was take all the roughness off of the plates and then they would be ready for glazing he always said how much he liked this job however he chose well in roto live because he felt that our town was a lovely market town and i felt the same then so much has changed over the years with many buildings poured down in orders and modernized i remember going to the regal picture house in the market square that was poured down in order to make way for the supermarket bryleys i think then there was the lyrics in middle and road as well as pictures there would be also be concerts on a sunday which we sometimes went to joe like boxing and football he always followed his hometown of portfale after allen was born i was a worked at home i made runners and car mats for a small businessman he went on to employ three other machinists it was better paid but not as good as going out to work i returned to i's book well in bro when allen was older i mostly worked on the geriatric wards until i retired we had a reasonable bus service which we've run by united counties we had our first television in 1953 so that we could watch the coronation i think we were the first in the street to have a telly all the kids from our street watch with us all of them waving waving union jacks i made them all sandwiches of course i also remember the funeral akin george prior to this day everyone more black then everyone was shocked the day i edward up abdicated the throne allen went to corolland road infant school and then onto john lee it was such a shame when it was poured down we used to like carnevors which were then held at bacic park we'd all dance around the bandstand later in the evening everyone followed the band down to well in bros station i really love the sight smell in fact everything about steam trains we all used to go to peta bro and sit on the on the bank near the station and then watch the trains come in and go in our sons would be taking the numbers of the trains we always used to take a pat lunch at the times allen his and his friends used to bite somewhere near nor vampton if they were late joe and i would go to meet them and then bring bring them and their bikes home in our car i live in a lovely flat in sharsbury house joe and i moved here in 1986 joe loved it it's really quiet without joe he died in two thousand and two without without the saddest day of my life i'm 91 now and happy living here the other tenants are so good i'm willing to help at any time we have a warden who works part-time to help us when when she is not there we have an on-call system to help in in an emergency memory memory for mallet in the days before emotion emotion came into the market there would be distemper we had an outside toilet every year during the winter the water would be turned off i would have been about five years of age i found this tin which i thought contained water and i peed in this for a few weeks dad unaware of my activities painted this novel mixture onto the toilet walls it took some time to discover the reason for this smell my grandad kalwa Kenwell's worked in the shoe industry the factory was on doddington road where the car part now is my grandad bought me a plastic boat which i loved he still have an allotment in book street east which is where satsbury's factory used to be that is the end of hollis story thank you allie jones jones born 1923 my mother f-ilmae was born at milton malza in 1899 it was my father henny jones was born in 1903 near the mount snorff umpson i don't know anything about my grandfathers but i do know that my grandmother sera langley died at the age of 75 in 1933 my other grandmother granny hodge died when i was older i had one older brother my grandmother had 15 children with some betweens i attended an andrew's church when i was five i remember that once i was talking to a big boy who i was sitting next to a teacher made me stay in i was peeved about this i decided i wasn't going to stop him but it instead decided to go home i managed to lift the latch of this heavy door and slipped out my father was a craftsman who made big opera boots for the stage i think that the firm he worked for was called whites i'd often go with my mum to take sandwiches to dad he would be where the leathers were hanging to be dried the factory was just off avenue to street tanneries tanneries were quite dangerous places then before mum married she told me that she had once known someone who worked in a big house in the village a lord and lady lived there apparently it used to practice to have two nages sleeping in the house keep it aired when the residents were away my mum was the model in the 50s she modeled for a lady who made gowns dad died in 1947 mum later remarried and then went to live in yawl granny lungley was a kind of bun lady i loved it when she made me chocolate drinks auntie madly next door to granny at rose cottage mierz sasbi the cottage was at the top of the lane i worked i worked in a shoe shop whilst i was still at school it was my job to go and get the pieces of leather let's have the shoe shop and the grandry they sold pieces of leather to my dad this is actually how it came to be that i got my job after leaving school i was 14 then i've shown how to do different jobs and also how to sell the shoes how to sell the how to sell the shoes to the customers the manager s of this door worked upstairs she and her partner belonged to a local drama group they needed more people to work in the shop i was taught about actually buying the shoes we brought them high quality shoe firms including barca's a well-sparken we also bought from the furbing in regent street north outton over the mount it was near brook manufacturers a chinese laundry haulage contractors and the employment exchange i was at the same same shop for about three years i loved the day i went to a shoe fair in london we had snacks at lion's corner house what i didn't much like was going on the tube train despite being scared i was also excited i had to buy my dress when i worked at let's his shoes the manager of my the next firm didn't want me to wear the shoes i had got from let's i had to comply i didn't like this job very much so gave me my notice but didn't have another job to go to i then went to work at a shop in board street where they sold beds i had to go into this room with a large air vent this was where the mattresses were filled with stuffing the women wouldn't wouldn't let me use the machine so i left it was then that i found this job at the studio in naryton north upton i was 19 when i left this job but whilst i was still at my first job i trained another girl to do what i was doing i thought that i should ask mr koopa if i could have a white weight rise he replied if i give you a weight rise then i would have to give all the girls a weight rise i wasn't very happy with what he told me so decided to go for another job at the studio at the stuedeaux in alabinton street north upton i was offered a job with them i returned to my then current employer and told him i was going to take the job i'd just been offered it was at this point that he offered me an increase in my wages at the henry koopa studio it was my job to retook thin perfections on the pictures it was a bit like the airbrush in which is done to photography today we had this little frame and the film was on a glass plate the negative was back to front if i saw something like a pocket pocket flap on a wedge and dress that didn't look right then it would be my job to try and fill it in i remember i will flim being at the downgate when i downgate when i was working at the shoe shopping the drapery i worked at five and a half days a week there wasn't a lot of money in our house so most of my wages would have been needed at home i would have to save it for my clothes and used to buy them from alabinton street i think that my weight then would have been about 50 shillings a week there was this girl who said she knew how old as he had stayed at their boarding house she said how he had helped to pay for his lodges with a box of chocolates i once went to the exchange a cinema in the market square it was all very flesh and round i recall how there was this restaurant in the exchange and there was a waitress service with food that i hadn't eaten before there were these lovely white tablecloths and you didn't have to book we could go to yarmouth when i was about 12 we stayed with the landlady cause called mrs angels mum would buy the food for us all and mr. change will cook to it we would catch a steam train from north outton the train didn't have any toilets so we would have to wait until the water turned the degree filling and then rushed to the toilet then i was afraid that i might miss the train sometimes we would have to sit on the luggage there was a first second and third class of travel travel at this time i think that this was about 1935 i remember how i told my mum that i wanted to learn to dance she taught me to a lady who lived in a house just off Grafton street north ampton north ampton has changed so much since i was younger i used to go rollerskating with ryan he was a good skater he also liked to swim and dive there was this french young french rig owner who i was friend with he was shot down and killed during the war i used to go on a motorbike with the boy who would later become my husband of course there were no rules then about wearing helmets he left he left he lived next door to me so i did bury the boy who lived next door i married one old Hamilton Jones in the 40s we were engaged when i was 16 but didn't get married until i was 20 we made up the church of the holy seppercut in north ampton there is an unusual dome on this church i believe that the font came from a church in Jerusalem and London. Ronald was in the world for air force during the war he was in Canada he created the dikes for the officers this was a specialist job he was pen in penhold Calgary he made friends with an older lady who looked after some of the servicemen she had a rather pretty granddaughter this lady sent us a beautiful table cloth when we later got married one bought me things like beautiful stockings and silk underwear during the war i was sent to ilfer chrome where i worked as a nursing auxiliary i had been in the red crossbright had been sent in there and that must have helped me this was about the time when one returned home from Canada i was in the army camp which was near tell over a race course i did some square bashing at the camp i was later sent to born with i was then in what was called a holding unit i was in the princess alexandra nursing team it was generally meant in the in the painting that we cared for and man in his late six this happened to take rather a shine to me he was a doctor i gave out a lot of medicines which were called 99s which were intended to help men with digestion problems one of my patients was to come one of my duties was to accompany patients who had to go to hospital there was once this young girl who said she had swallowed an needle she was made to eat cotton or sandwich i was in the unit for about 18 months i was happy there i saw my wedding dress on a model in the shop window when i was at bosscom and just fell in love with it it cost 15 pounds i had to have it i had one bridesmaid we didn't go on honeymoon but instead went to see agathos prey play the mousetrap it was a tight squeeze where i sat two sat between two big people either side of me i couldn't sit next to ron when we were first married we stayed at my parents house but shortly after went to live with one's dad's family there were two main bedrooms and there was a box room his father grandfather and brother lived there so it was a bit overcrowded it was the bad wind of 1947 when we were off at our council house the pre-fab house was very cold in the winter there was a copper boiler i would have to put my coat on in the winter we did have an outside toilet as well as an inside toilet my daughter pam left school when she was 15 she went to work in a stationary wholesaler but they also sold house old goods cards and toys one of my sons sons had an apprenticeship with brevitz where he lent the skill of knife making my other two daughters worked as nanny's in america for a couple of years i now have 13 grandchildren and 10 great children grandchildren with another on the way Brenda mab i was born to Sydney Gambour a mum marion elizabeth mum was born in yarmouth whilst my dad was born at naysby mum was 96 when she died dad worked as a groundsman at the bowling green in yarmouth where we lived and where i was born there were rows of houses they were so close that you were able to reach over and touch the hand of the person we lived opposite you we moved when i was age six sadly all these houses were bombed i was born in row number 100 and at house number six i had two brothers one brother is now about 95 but we lost my other brother some years ago we all moved to the coast where mum ran a bed and breakfast place during the summer she would have holiday makers whilst in the winter she would take in scottish girls these girls used to gut the herrings they used to be troughs with the where the herrings were kept the men coopers used to make the barrels used to store the herrings in i went to green acre school for girls which was in abmottu road i didn't like school i managed to leave school just as the war um started in 1939 our family went to live with an aunt who lived in heston middle sets as a safer place to live at the bottom of our garden we had an Anderson shelter which accommodated five of us our uncle used to keep watch we also had shelters called marisons basically this was like a great big table which was reinforced we would go there if we needed shelter quickly i had a sister who was bombed out when living in Coventry they all run for their lives then i managed to complete just one day at my first job i was working at McFarland which was a biscuit factory the smeller bacon biscuits made me feel sick from there i went to work as a lift operator at the car up in middle sets after this i worked for pyrene who made fire extinguishers relative manager managed to get me job at technicolor this was an american firm a lot of our family were working there i was a filing clerk for a while before going on to what i viewed as my proper job doing films there are only three colors that we worked with when we were when we were there which were yellow cyan and magenta the firm was a film firm was a film post in industry with a machine on the top floor this machine was called iB anyway blank films will run through hence the coloring films 35 mm wide were then placed into cams tins for shipment to various places i worked in the shipping department and had to wear white gloves whilst checking the end films to protect them although the walls are and i was very happy working at technicolor my lovely work mate joe nicknamed rusty work there we have what were called vaults above ground and outside the factory which was called a plant there was quite a funny thing which happened once we needed a couple of spare tins so i went to the vault with a chap called alf we put the light on from outside and then went in however once we were inside someone's slammed the door locked us both in six since nickname was bunk he was called that he was able to reach upper shelves in the plant by being bumped up there was a field now where women were potato picking suddenly they were bombed and all the women killed they were hit by doodle box bugs you could only know that you were about to be bombed when an engine when the engine cut out i recall how i was in bed when i saw a doodle bog with a sound like a motorbike engine going off when i saw a light in the tail i realized that it wasn't for us it was like land mines going off i was cycling home with two lats when a land mine was dropped close to our house the window glass fell into our house and there was glass everywhere when dad arrived home he wondered where his whiskey had gone he was told that my mum and aunt had drunk it the boy is Charles and Derek who had so good home with me helped clear all the glass up i first made contact with a surs Plovisman and became a pen friend his name one of many was in a newspaper the lady who had organized it or sent me henney earnest to be my pen friend i was about 18 when i started writing and he was 20 when i eventually met him for the first time i had to wear some sort of identity identification i wore a grey coat had a black bag and carried a green chiffon scarf no sooner as i got him home he became mum's blue i boy we married on the 26th of march 1949 at St Peter's church hounds low west i had a wedding dress made out of satin that my boyfriend had bought back from Malta we have one Ted wedding cake handmade by my work kolly pan it was my only bridesmaid i had a daughter Pauline who also lives in morn she brings me to can do care my other daughter is now 60 lives in lincoln one daughter works as a cleaner and the other works on the checkout of ketchup and Tesco's i have six runs since and seven great grandchildren some time ago i lived in lincoln but my son-in-law told his wife to arrange for me to live closer to them i actually live in a self-contained room with a link to their house i feel that i'm not after so well by them i've arranged to pay for both my daughters to have a holiday jiarma this year we are busy savi and our substances which we plan to spend in the slot machines there i love coming to sachs and hall with rawns as i have so many friends who also come here where we are able to always take care of i used to enjoy knitting but due to our writers i'm unable to knit anymore but i keep busy doing word search, crosswords or watching our account dad i love that too Helen ferry born 1927 i was born at the army hospital as dad was in the army dad started as a stable boy and ended as a lieutenant colonel my father William James Alfred Withers was born in 1890 my mother, Eighty Throws, was born at Farmborough near oldest shot in 1886 she was a nurse and also a matron in the army my sister Betty was born in India in 1924 she was only three pounds at birth she was a wonderful little girl she passed her eleven-person went to bairwood grammarsville it was why she was studying at pine woods that she died from tb i had a step brother and two brothers the oldest was also in the army and had the same name as my father Withers is a real Birmingham name i didn't attend a proper school for very long when i was in India sometimes i went to a convent convent we moved every six months when it was very hot we went to school schools up in the hills Helen ferry born 1927 i was born at the army hospital as dad was in the army dad started as a stable boy and ended as a lieutenant colonel my father William James Alfred Withers was born in 1890 my father mother Eighty Throws was born at Farmborough near oldest shot in 1886 she was a nurse and also a matron in the army my sister Betty was born in India in 1924 she was only three pounds at birth she was a wonderful little girl she passed her eleven-person went to bairwood grammarsville it was why she was studying at pine woods that she died from tb i had a step brother and two brothers the oldest was also in the army and had the same name as my father Withers is a real Birmingham name i didn't attend a proper school for very long when i was in India sometimes i went to a convent convent we moved every six months when it was very hot we went to school schools up in the hills if there wasn't a nearby school we would be taught by someone at the nearest army camp we had a lovely time when the marihajah sent his elephants up to pick us up we would sit on a seat on the elephant it was great fun dad would go shooting if a child had been taken by a wild animal he would go out and shoot it we had walls around the house two men with guns would always be on guard we had a very earthquake when many people were killed my parents were away at one of the other camps if it hadn't been for our servants who stole food for us we could have starved we didn't know where our father was for three years as he had been sent to or where he had been sent to he didn't know where we were either i think that the film little princess really reflected my life my oldest brother and my stepbrother were captured by the japanese one was a gunnery officer and was beaten all his teeth and nails were taken out when he refused to answer any of their questions during the interrogate interrogation within 24 hours he was dead we didn't know where he was buried my younger brother was in hospital for two years i realized that many people now live in in japan in 2014 were not even born then i hope that nothing such as the awful experiences suffered by some prisoners then will ever be repeated i was six months older when i was taken to india returning home 15 years later took us six weeks as we were being chased by submarines floating mines everything i recall how we never took our life jackets off when we arrived home we saw arts and uncles that we never knew we had i'd always dreamed of becoming a nurse when i left school so when i left school at the age of 18 however in the meantime i had caught chicken pots and meatles when i went for my interview to become a nurse i was informed that i wouldn't be fit enough to become a nurse of course i was very disappointed i immediately decided to join the army instead i recalled how i was given a queen shilling for food for a day i still have this shilling i ended up by being in charge of 24 girls there was sometimes bad peas in the pot i recall a girl with lovely blonde hair i discovered that some of the girls were bullied it were bullied in this girl i took the bullies to the train and put them on it the bully girl threw herself into the river and drowned i had to identify the girl and then go on to tell her parents she was an only child and the way that bullying still happens even in 2014 it's essential that all bullies are reported and thrown out wherever that this happens to be i met my husband when i was in the army he came to collect 15 of my girls for work which was either in the cook house or the officer's mess we've got talking during the journey he asked me to go to the pictures with him and i said yes we married on january the 15th 1949 i'd left the army on january the first after being demobbed i was quite unhappy to see the men getting suits shirts boots etc whilst women got a 10 pound note and clothing coupons it was so unfair we did the same job as men but got nothing in comparison i was lucky in that i had support for my husband to be calling we had two boys and two girls were born in 1949 51 55 and 62 i'm happy to say that they have to all done well in life one of my sons worked as a carpet for mariots i'm finished in a senior position my other son passes 11 plus to go to grandma's school but is his friends were going to set in modern school he went there instead one of my son's breeds Norwich canaries they are such beautiful birds many of the birds i've brought by people living abroad my son won't send them away so the purchaser has to come and fetch the canary my son writes in the birds and avarice magazine he often travels abroad to judge we moved to rinks at north hunting she soon after our marriage remained in the same house until my health deteriorated and we now moved and then we moved to a bungalow in rinkset my husband had a bag for when he was outside fortunately boys from flaps and school heard his cries for help as they were passing their our home they helped to bring him into our house which i was very grateful in an integral i've reported these boys after i had contacted newspaper i feel that it is important that kind actions are recognized my husband and i had a good life together and shared the same interest of boring and Latin dancing we danced among other places at waymoth we would stay for the week on holiday developing our dancing skills often being televised Len Goldman taught us once we would dance during the day and then be judged in the evening i love coming to come to a care eherium rorns due to osteoarthritis and rheumatism i can't walk very far now but this is a wonderful place to come to if i didn't come here twice a week all i would have would be four walls to look at i missed my husband who died in 2012 the end of this story blan Warner born 1927 dad died when i was eight and as i was one of five sons life wasn't very easy for my mother in order to become a breadwinner i left school at the age of 14 i later rolled enrolled in an evening class while in protecting college where i was to remain for some time i was determined to do something with my life which is why i decided to become a draftsman and develop and understand in about building i'd always had an interest in architecture and would love to become an architect but due to financial implications coupled with the fact that it would have taken seven years several years to qualify i followed up my second choice i worked in the drawing office at hunter and penrose but was called up to do a national service and joined the clerical department of the ref in 1940 sets where i continued to work as a draftsman having saved enough many whilst in service i was able to enroll on a art and design course at north bampton college during my time at college i collected a portfolio and it from this that i was chosen to go and work at a studio in north bampton but i still felt that there was something else that i should have been doing with my life then i decided that i would prefer to have a job working with people which is why i decided to become an officer in the salvation army by 1939 mum had moved her business to abbey road as the war had started it was a bad time for her russian came as mum was selling parsons pork pies and cockmits all of these were russian but her business survived it was opposite the prince of was pub which is now a home for disabled people my brother caught with the laminar's daughter my brother was an engine engine driver he had passed the 11 plus but mum couldn't afford to pay for his uniform as he'd always dreamt to become in a train driver he wasn't disappointed about not having a grammy school education he wasn't conscripted as driving trains was of course essential he used to take up arms up and down the country he used to take arms up and down the country i smiled now as mum used to spoil my brother he was given butter whilst we were given my dream my sister was nine years older than me she was a sergeant in the west and was in the barrage balloon unit in london my old his brother was a desert rat in egypt my other sister was maintaining wellington bombers which were based at sirewell dad was a marine in the dar den als i used to cycle for the arp in wellingborough the unit was based behind what is now wellingborough library there used to be cabins cabins there it was my job to take the messages between the cabins which were based all over wellingborough i remember german pains going to commentary on the bombing of commentary i clearly remember the bancology menu when a german bomber dropped a bomb in market street at six p.m the alert alert was sounded in wellingborough but only moments later adornia two 117 flew over the town dropping four um dropping four 500 kilogram high explosive bombs they also dropped bombs near the um gas tanks in wellingborough i went into the town and saw all of the dust four women two men and one boy were killed and 55 injured there was also extensive damage to houses factories churches hotels pub cinemas as well as the headquarters broadcast relay services the yanks were coming the five and four five regimental based in scotland my sister went on to maria one of these bombers these to stay at the bezel wing which were near the swap to the sponspore all the american veals vehicles and the gear used was stored beneath the trees all along luncheon road of course all along luncheon road with screen from the general public early war i remember when moseley came with his black shirts and how he marched from wellin berscore and up to the senator the headmaster at the school was a communist many doesn't bring happiness i also recall janitor d_g_ visit him find or find and more he had a housekeeper who was a bit of a recluse i believe that winston church he only got to be prime minister because of the labor party clement atley had been in the war office and was the commanding chief i joined the labor league of youth when i was 18 we used to meet at the command road wellinborough we couldn't vote until we were 21 then george lindigram was an mp from 1945 and 1946 it was a junior minister in pileman the lindigram stayed at the hind hotel mrs lindigram used to do her shopping in wellin berscaturday the ymca which was at the back of the central hall and this is where was where we used to have gatherings for youth pilement we used to have lively debates there there was a potato famine at the time and the Tories would roll potatoes down the central aisle anything to cause a diversion i was at black pore for 19 from 1955 until 57 and work with children i was often working on the beach and was able to use my drawing skills i was actually based at aquington lancanchere it was a weaving town i lived in claret street the citadel was next to what had been an entrance to aquington mines the welcome sergeant was a jimakon i remember going to his home and that he had so much furniture little maria runny was a very good collector for the cause she was the same we used to have a mill with lady bancroft at her big house we would sit each side of a long table with her at the head of the table we used to have fish and chips served on a silver salver we did a poor porebousfume but no one else could help so we had to organize this funeral ourselves there was this poor little lady who had taken three daffodils for someone's garden she had nothing at all i officiated at numerous weddings over the years mainly for starvation army people but also dedicated of baptisms the starvation army flag always had to be brought in ministerial training took about 80 months my mother had a little star when i was ordained the british commissioner took the service there are at least 200 people there and there was a bandlaying i had designed the bat scenery to be picked he picked him flowers and crafts on the hill i was given my first post in a flat pool i'd only recently recovered from about a pneumonia so that was one of the main reasons why i was posted there a lot of scots was that were there i was at northern isle for three years it was my job to go around the pub since same pain at quarters salvation army was accepted there i traveled down to doubling by the train i recall so many many people standing on the steps of the conceit the visual kids were big begging there i loved the Belfast Belfast people but the powers that being moved me on and i went whilst i was still at the top i remember being at the ferry at midnight and saying goodbye all the people from the citadel were there my next posting was a form of them was at the boscombe citadel i used to be anxious as i'm not an i'm not an orator when i was taking services i was taught to look over people's heads but there was this holy joke character he was always trying to correct me never over the next 12 months would he either would either he or his wife invite me to their home they they were retired majors and kernels i used to have have a lot to do a lot of visiting to do i didn't make care of the major i was at the bomber i was at bomber for 12 months but during this time i wasn't very happy they all had good places and nice homes whilst i was a lodger and looked after myself my landlady was lovely but sure i served me mashed mashed potatoes i went out to avoid a mashed potatoes i was a youth officer and it was a rough place where gangs were formed they used to fight but i would tell them that they had to get together or leave i would say that it was probably my toughest job i feel that i got very little support whilst i was there i was demarred demarred at littinson and i remember going to a cafe and having a sausage breakfast a noose it was provided for me and also my fair home i was then at wispyj wherever you go people are different they were very strawberries and flowers people i was there for the next 12 months there was an election and i was walking down the road and saw two people walking towards me when i recognized immediately as being george brown i couldn't belong to a political party whilst i was in the salvation army george spoke to me and was very friendly i thought he was a Prescott sort of person he came in wearing a blue suit when i spoke at rushton he could make contact with people immediately i remember bub castle small and petite with organ hair she was ferocious from wispyj i returned to wellimba college street where i stayed with my sister son and her husband i share a room with my nephew and then needed to find a job necessary for a reference i attended an interview at town's end carriers carriers which was in high and various a manager a manager arrived one morning at pike's roe church street i had already explained that i wasn't looking for a welfare job with his firm and so had been truthful i was offered an accepted employment with this firm and was there for some time and then got a job at crannage crannage where i worked for london county council i had 300 on my list but not children my case files mainly worked around supporting those with learning disabilities see learning disabilities and mental illness problems i soon discovered that many people were not getting their benefit entitlements all this work was good training for me worked with all nationalities we also helped deafened them and blind clients and because of this i had to learn sign language i used to have to go one day a week with regards training as well as learning about the organizations i'd later come into contact with as i was still living in north ampere ji i would catch the seven a.m. bus getting off at eastfield road and then catch the seven 25 one one in butters St. Pancras before catching a train from london bridge to wallage or grandage which was where most of my clients were i was to remain in this job for next to three years i then returned to north ampere in 1968 i then done employment as a social worker inhaled them welfare i applied for the job as a manager at the gladston center in north ampere this center accepted people who are aged 16 or over i remained in this job for the next two years i then tried something really different when i applied for a job working at the south of arabian embassy where i explained that i'd only experienced rather than certificates i worked in the capital re-ard for the next 12 months i worked as an advisor to the ministry of disabled people there was no social life i got a flat near to desu and the british corporation compound with a saldy guard at the gate i found that making friend a friend with this gate was with this guard was helpful as i managed to get into the embassy at weekends i remember how they used to make their own drinks there was an English boy there who owned a sports car which he would drive around the compound there was also a man there who owned a bungalow he was disabled i had been living in a hotel which was opposite the american compound i used to get my breakfast there this compound also had its own cinema i joined a christian group i would walk but it wasn't a done thing then they had coffee shots but if i went into one then i was viewed with suspicion i got friends with a taxi driver and it was him who helped me to get a flat i got a bad ear infection which was treated in a free hospital but by three doctors parkestion is run show that parkestion is run show the roach run the show whilst i was there i stayed at two hotels sometimes i would go off with the americans to watch the camel or horse racing it was amusing watching people trying to get onto the camels i was in a great big office there was his fellow there who would just sit with his feet up on his desk reading his newspaper he was supposed to be the boss i would write out all of my reports the young parkestion he was my secretary my report would go to the minster who wanted to be a prince he would go to see this pin we would go to see this prince and have to drink his this foul coffee they would always always keep me waiting the saturday's didn't seem to do the dirty work king pysell was assassinated he had big blocks of flats but his people refused to move into them but he stayed instead remained in their shacks they were quite nice and made of tin leaves to be lovely and Mercedes parked outside these shacks after my year was up i stayed in friends i stayed in friends flats in london in order to find employment and a wage i began working in a market garden nursery and i remained there for the next nine months i was promoted to be a foreman where i supervise loads of women it was great i then found employment as a manager at willerson this time working for older people i was driving by then i used to drive from north ampere to willister and every day i remained there until i got a job at lamper lamperthas main manager mrs mary wilson opened the center and i had the honor of um of receiving here i remained at the center for the next three years there was a diverse membership of people there i used to take this south london perky secretary to parklaine palmell or dolchester for a meal also a mid-remember meeting the governor of a prison who i became good friends with it was all very interesting we used to get pre-seats for matinees at theatres and we would go on special display disabled coaches we always had three seats everybody used to have a whale at the time we used to stop at biggles well with biggles way perborea beep slip book to mill usually scamp and chips and in winter used to sit beside a great big fire i still miss those happy times we would also help people with dementia sometimes staff went with us they were often included on the list i would say that my proudest moment was when i got into welfare as i had no school certificate certificates except i was an elementary boy who managed to achieve something with my efforts and did this for 30 years i moved to find in in 1965 having resigned from being a salvation army officer at which wiz beach um i enjoyed the social service part of the salvation army i believe that my service servicing in such a post was the catalyst which encouraged me to apply for the self-air social welfare officer at gepgrinishland and there were four candidates for this post was one was at university studying sociology another was a welfare assistant and another was at college there were eight people on the panel i had by then had an interview with a senior social worker and i had also attended the willim booth college in london that had been recommended by wellimba salvation army to do this cause as an officer i'd been given a relaxed by the salvation army i couldn't be a member of any political party whilst being in the salvation army office but when i retired at the age of 62 i became a member of the label party i will never change my politics nothing is perfect and no one is perfect life is temporary everything around you is temporary so do what you can why should you can i don't know what will happen tomorrow we used to have a men some women's cooperative department siro wilson looked at the men's outfit as in church street siro was the real historian historian of findum then as was willing to help others he was a lovely man soon after arriving in finding i heard that the label party needed a secretary and agreed to take on this post this post was just am being the position of being able to stand for the urban district council and the three of us who stood there were returned on a post and this was in the 60s i feel that i had been quite active working in the community and that have helped people where i could it was whilst i was serving on the urban district council that i became more aware what was needed i had lots of requests for help it was difficult to meet the needs of everyone i was as i was working at Greenwich at the time and i left for working in the darkness and returned in the darkness i was on the paris council uh right from its inception i was secretary of the carnival parade committee for two years but had to resign from this post when i went to work abroad i saw also a founder with jordennison of the community social i was the area officer of the stroke association after retiring from the social services several local people requested that a stroke look was needed and this came from being into into being in 1990 i was also a member of the north i always feel that by giving i receive much more in my life i've tried to do my bit in god's vineyard i can't do anymore i always remember the epitaph on someone's grave which read he who he have done what he could this is what i would like as an effort to epitaph on my gravestone what a beautiful thing to do the next memories are from maymorris or 1928 my mother's name was hilda man and dad's name was harry man my brothers were bill harry john and can can and sisters mary and doreen i stayed chin in chatham we were going to be inspected by king jor so we have been given a few days off i was in there nafy club some sailors had arrived from a raw navy navy ship they have been sailing the mediterranean a young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink i had a cider he would be back to the rent quarters then he asked me to go to the pictures the next evening we went to a film afterwards he walked me back to the rent quarters and asked me to marry him i said no about 12 months after i had been to my when i was scraping potatoes with my mother she told me that i should write to clip he had been writing to me since i met him she said i should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore i said i wouldn't like him to think i hadn't contacted him so i wrote to him and said that i would marry him he came for his ease to leave to our house he told me that he had been in the marines and they had been shot in the leg whilst in in bermar we married on august 50th 1950 we spent christmas together and then he sent the courier on the hm s constant for the first four years fair marriage i never saw him but he used to write every day when he came back to play with we saw each other at weekends when he was demob we moved to ron's we had three children melony in anandrew in served 22 years in the army he came out as a well an officer melony works in education and is a school governor he works in an office and andrew is a postman they are very good children and are always there for me on april 25th 2011 and my husband died at the funeral my daughter's husband read a tribute to him the love stuff like lifeboat took his ashes out to see he had always loved lowest stuff we had a mobile bed the next memories are from may morris or 1928 my mother's name was hilda man and dad's name was harry man my brothers were bill harry john and can can and sisters mary and doreen i stayed shanin chatham we were going to be inspected by king jor so we have been given a few days off i was in there nappy club some sailors had arrived from a raw navy navy ship they had been sailing the mediterranean a young man asked me to dance and then he asked me to go for a drink i had a cider he would be back to the ron's quarters then he asked me to go to the pictures the next evening we went to a film afterwards he walked me back to the ron's quarters and asked me to marry him i said no about 12 months after i had been demob when i was scraping potatoes with my mother she told me that i should write to clip he had been writing to me since i met him she said i should tell him not to bother writing to me anymore i said i wouldn't like him to think i hadn't contacted him so i wrote to him and said that i would marry him he came for his ease to leave to our house he told me that he had been in the marines and they had been shot in the leg whilst in in bermar we married on august 50th 1950 we spent christmas together and then he sent the courier on the hms constant for the first four years fair marriage i never saw him but he used to write every day when he came back to play with we saw each other at weekends when he was demob we moved to ron's we have three children melony in anandra in sev 22 years in the army he came out as a well an officer melony works in education and is a school governor he works in an office and andra is a postman they are very good children and are always there for me on april 25th 2011 my husband died at the funeral my daughter's husband read a tribute to him the love stuff like lifeboat took his ashes out to sea he had always loved lowest stuff we had a mobile bed ron of pittman born 1929 my father my father ronald arthall worked for the air ministry i know that he was pretty high up he had been transferred from london to cometary every night we would head for the nearest shelter we were near the blitz i remember october the 12 1942 the biggest day of the blitz i recall how we used to go into the recreational realm where shelters had been dug the following morning we returned to our house we out to walk home as there were no buses we discovered that five houses down from our house there was a parachute stuck on a chimney on on the end was a great big bomb it hadn't gone off if it had then the house in our street would have been destroyed as mum was walking she kept repeating the words i wonder if the house is still there i think that this must have been enough of my parents as they packed our cases and we walked away from my home my parents and i walked out of cometary i was 11 at the time they had decided to leave cometary and head to north anthem mum came from north anthem we were just carrying one case each the passing driver stopped and asked of what where we were going when we told him of our planned destination he told us that we were going in the wrong way for the bus station he took us to his house and gave us tea after tea tea he took us to the bus station a really kind act um the following story was given to me um by Arthur Hyatt i know his daughter born 1930 London i was born at the White Chapel Hospital to Elizabeth Hyatt, Neve Smith my mother was born in 1904 in the same area of London on leaving school she worked in the factory making toothbrushes and shaving brushes from Badger hair my mum's parents lived in Pichard's road Bethmore Green which was a two up and two down property my grandma grandma made much match boxes for brine and may she stuck on the strips of paper which she first put in water then stuck on the form she received very little money for this she also made trousers for school boys her husband my grandfather was a court cluster and this was fitted into policeman's helmets bit more interesting information to learn he died before i was born so i never knew him my aunt Lee in a live close by and she worked as a French publisher which she carried out in her garden my father Henry Hyatt was also born in 1904 he worked in a shoe factory the same one where his father was employed they made latest shoes for for during the world war two and they made boots for soldiers i was the youngest of identical twins my brother was also was also called Henry we started school age two and a half and we used to sleep in the afternoons after the blinds were poured we were living in Pichard's road Bethmore Green at that time with my mother's parents we later moved to live with my father's mother in north street Hattney after her husband my grandfather died the landlord would visit every week to collect the rent money which was 6 penny farther it must have been a struggle for people to find enough money then as mum often spoke of people having their furniture thrown out in the streets when they could not afford to pay the rent we attended mowlin street infant school the boys and girls from 1935 there we learnt to read and write and basic arithmetic when we reached the age of eight years we went to so it's done to road june his school this was quite a distance away it was it near to victoria park in their park there were swings lides of boat in lake lido bunsand and a malajune we were playing the park and sometimes turn the skipping rope for the girls eventually the house where we lived in in north street was demolished and we moved to a council that flat on the pembury road estate in clapton this had electric lighting a bathroom and two bedrooms most of the thumb is moving from north street they're more housed on the same estate at the outbreak of world war two we were we were listed to chambering we listened to chambering of this announcing this on the wireless we were evacuated to north at a place called pastan closed to the east coast we stayed with the chamber and them in pastan for one year after which the government the government became for the safety of evacuees the threat of invasion on the in coast seemed likely so we were put on a train to wood air near town within the middle and after we arrived at our new destination we were taken to a field where households had already gathered mr and mrs hunt took us into their home which was a cottage keeper's cottage in the valley this had been a hunting cottage in the past we attended a local school but due to the increase in population caused by evacuees there was only one room to accommodate us in the mornings as though the shortage of teachers as was brought out of this retirement on leaving for work one morning mr hunt found chickens of pigs running loose outside he told us there are bits of pigs hanging from the trees as there had been a bombing made overnight our parents were now really worried about our safety due to where we were living so they made a decision to bring us back to London on our return to London we attended the grocery school a lovely Victorian building near to where we lived in clapton the 11 plus had ceased during the war so all we went to we all went to an elementary school two years later having reached the age of 14 we left school and started work i was fortunate enough to gain employment with a building company part of our work was to go to properties that had been bombed had bombed damage so we could board them up we also had contracts to board up pubs and the and the braman would leave out barrels out it was our responsibility to make the roof waterproof weatherproof i remember working at the cot cabin hybrid corner where we were boarding at the windows when i do what drug bugged dropped on a nearby station my workmate dropped through the roof to the bottom floor injuring himself i was blown through a window and a piece of glass sliced into my head somebody rubbed my head in a towel then put me on a tram to witchington hospital to get treatment i still have that scar our teenage years seemed to last forever both my brother and myself had left school and were working i started evening classes however one night a v2 rocket landed on it and then managed to back the school i was promised another place at a school further away that only had gas lighting the germists struck again this time we're dudelberg and the schools completely demolished in nineteen forty eight my brother and i enjoyed dancing dancing and we went to parties with our friends as we reached a team we all received our call at papers to do national service my brother and i went for our medical together and was successful in getting places as a first choice at raf we went to pudgate for our basic training and then moved on to raf cramwell number one radio station after passing the course i was posted to raf marham in northward but after a couple of weeks i was moved again to a radio radar site in bister after my time at raf bister i was told i was being posted to germany my brother was stationed at raf heens freds i stayed with him until we both were dispatched to germany we had no idea exactly where in germany we were going or why we landed at raf gap up though gato in berlin after reporting to the signals commander i was enlightened on the situation i wonder why there were so many aircraft landing and taking off day and night we were told we were feeding the german population of berlin by air air reported not only food but other supplies such as coal oil baby food and engineering equipment in fact anything that was needed to sustain life was bought in by air as there was no other route open i was set to work in the control tower controlling air traffic the shifts were long as we were in a station operating over 24 hours towards the end of my time in berlin i was sent to raf gushishon in the british zone as they had demod some air traffic controllers and this had left them short staffed i was trying to get a return to gato and my brother when evening my brother when evening rang me to see if he could help there was a celebration going on there and he explained that the wafts were returning to britain as it was becoming too dangerous for them to stay in the to stay to because of russia occupation the risk of i was eventually returned to britain berlin and was put in charge of direct tilling direction finding unit in 1949 nato had just been formed and i had direct contact via red telephone to nato headquarters if needed in january 1950 i was sent to raf raf book of bird for a rehabilitation course this was intended to prepare me to go back into civil civil civilian life in march of that year i soon realized it was a scam to get me to sign on for further service i knew they were looking for wireless operators to go into the east of germany but i wasn't having any of that instead i returned to raf kirk room in march 1950 and i was demob from there i was once again a civilian and returned to my old job three months later came into the korean war i was recalled and sent to london airport to retrain on radar and more modern equipment in case i was needed for further service with the raf my girlfriend phy was not pleased as we were making plans to marry i resume my studies at the north and pelt politic nique after securing my brit brie was implowing i married by in march 1952 at st mary church dulston we rented a flat in colverston crescent where we stayed for about six years our first daughter um valerie was born in 1954 we then moved to a relatives house and rented a flat there in 1960 to our second daughter jillian was born about 18 months later we decided to move out of london to hundin den as we wanted a house of our own i obtained work as a jasmine for a refrigeration company but unfortunately the pay was not that good my friend tom who was a factory foreman and i left the company and obtained some contract work so that we could make enough money to buy our own houses i bought a house in sordry tom and i were working for a builder on research center and they asked me if i would like to work for them direct i joined their design team as a senior architect and say there until my retirement in 1995 i carried on privately with my architect consultancy designing houses and extensions but as the planning laws and building regulations became more complex i called it a day and retired gradually much to my wife's pleasure that should be gracefully much to my wife's pleasure my wife by died in 2009 my daughter valerie is now retired from our management position with department of works and pensions and my youngest daughter jillian is still working as a network design development manager this is my life story well not all of it as I'm still alive. True. The end.
